
  ANECDOTES & INCIDENTS

  OF THE

  DEAF AND DUMB.

  W. R. ROE, M. C. T. D. & D.,


  Head Master Midland Deaf and Dumb Institution, Derby,
  Author Of "Alice Gray: a True Story;" &c.


  DERBY:
  FRANCIS CARTER, IRON GATE.

  1886.




PREFACE.


The Deaf and Dumb cannot help themselves as others can. From the cradle
they are cut off from their fellow creatures. They can only cry, like
the dumb brute, to make their pains and wishes known. God only can know
the bitterness of heart, the desolation of the deaf and dumb child of
the poor, as it grows up in a world without speech or sound--a lifelong
silence! A mother's smile it may understand, but her soothing voice
never comforts or delights it. While others grow in love, and life, and
intelligence, its heart is chilled and its mind enfeebled. Only under
suitable instruction, given at an early age, can the deaf mute become
anything but a burden to others and to himself.

The anecdotes in the following pages will doubtless be read with
considerable curiosity, and it is hoped that the Midland Institution for
the Deaf and Dumb at Derby will receive some pecuniary assistance by the
publication of this little book.

There are 1119 Deaf and Dumb in the Institution's district, which
comprises six of the Midland Counties.

The Institution is supported by voluntary contributions.

     W. R. R.

     _Midland Deaf and Dumb Institution,
     Friar Gate, Derby._




  ANECDOTES

  OF THE

  DEAF AND DUMB.




[Illustration]

ASK A BLESSING.

A little boy was admitted as a pupil into the Institution for the Deaf
and Dumb at Derby. Previous to his admission he had given his parents
and friends a great deal of trouble, and fears were entertained that he
would be none the less troublesome to those in charge of him at the
Institution. Happily however, owing to the firmness and kindness of his
teachers, he very soon yielded to the rules and became a good, obedient
boy. At length the time came for the vacation, and, amongst others, this
little fellow went home for his holiday. The dinner hour arrived, and
sitting down with his parents, he looked up at his father and put his
hands together. He wanted his father to ask a blessing. The father made
the boy understand he did not know what to say, then the poor little
fellow began to cry. At last he thought of a plan, he would ask the
blessing himself; and so he spelt on his fingers the blessing he had
learnt at the Institution, and got his friends to spell on their fingers
after him letter by letter and word by word, and thus overcame the
difficulty in which he was placed.




DEAF AND DUMB CLERGYMEN.

In America there are four deaf and dumb clergymen working in connection
with the Church Missions to the Deaf and Dumb. There are also in
connection with the same mission eight lay readers, all of whom are deaf
and dumb.--_Deaf Mute World._




HOW TO SAVE THE RATES.

In a vast majority of cases where the deaf and dumb are allowed to grow
up uneducated and uncared for they become inmates of Workhouses or
Lunatic Asylums. Many years ago L---- K---- was taken from a workhouse
in Derbyshire where he had been for a number of years, and educated and
apprenticed to a suitable trade; he is now a steady, industrious man,
married, and himself a _ratepayer_. This is only one of many similar
instances that have come within our experience. In some other cases they
are struggling to support widowed mothers and sisters.




FATAL ACCIDENT TO A DEAF AND DUMB BRIDE ON THE DAY OF MARRIAGE.

The following is taken from the _Manchester Mercury and Harrop's General
Advertiser_, June 10, 1800:--"On the 12th ult., in the Island of
Anglesea, Mr. Henry Ceclar, a gentleman well known for his pedestrian
feats, to Miss Lucy Pencoch (the rich heiress of the late Mr. John
Hughes, Bawgyddanhall), a lady of much beauty, but entirely deaf and
dumb. This circumstance drew together an amazing concourse of people to
witness the ceremony, which, on the bride's part, was literally
performed by proxy. A splendid entertainment was given on the occasion
by the bridegroom; but a dreadful catastrophe closed the scene, for the
bride, in coming down stairs, made a false step, and fell with so much
violence against a chair that she immediately expired."




M. BERTHIER.

This gentleman, who is now senior professor in the Paris Institution for
the Deaf and Dumb, is described as a man of rare merit, probably
superior in literary abilities and acquirements to any other deaf mute
from birth that any country can produce. He is the author of several
works that would do credit to a well-educated man whose knowledge of
language had been acquired through the ear. On a recent occasion of a
public exercise at the Institution he was decorated by the President of
the Republic with the Cross of the Legion of Honour, the first time such
a distinction had ever been conferred on a deaf and dumb person.




"HIS RIGHT NAME."

In a letter received by the head master at the Deaf and Dumb Institution
at Derby, a lady writes about a little boy she had assisted in obtaining
admission into the Institution, and said that "During the little time
(18 months) that William has been in the Institution he has improved
wonderfully." She writes--"You know he used to be so wild, dirty, and
careless; he was always interfering with everybody, in fact he went in
the village by the name of Troublesome Dummy. All is changed; he is a
nice clean, well behaved boy, and people are beginning to call him by
his right name, William. We shall never forget what you have done for
him."

[Illustration]




AN INGENIOUS BOY.

We were lately shown a curiosity in the shape of a sewing machine
entirely of wood. It was whittled out of ordinary pine with an ordinary
jack-knife by an ordinary boy--no, not an ordinary boy; it was the
handiwork of a deaf and dumb boy who resides at Massachusetts. A machine
was left at the house of the boy by an agent, and the lad, with
considerable ingenuity, made a counterpart of the machine, and did it
wholly with a jack-knife.




"MIGHTY PROUD."

At a meeting held in a country village in aid of the Deaf and Dumb
Institution, Derby, a number of the pupils were present on the platform.
One of the speakers called attention to a bright looking little fellow,
and asked the audience if they knew him? and amidst general laughter
spoke of the boy's earlier years, how he had seen him running about
barefooted and dirty, playing with the worst boys in the streets; but
now completely changed in his habits and character. He went on to relate
a little incident he had himself observed a few weeks previous, when the
boy was home from the Institution for his holiday. The little deaf and
dumb boy was coming along the road, looking clean and bright, and
carrying a book in his hand, when four of his old gutter companions, all
in dirt, and who ought to have been at school, saw him, and one of them
shouted out, "Hello, here's owd dummy comin;" and all four went to meet
him, and tried to make friends with him, but he thought they were
scarcely clean enough for his company, and quietly passed on his way
towards home. The boys were surprised, and stared at each other for some
time; at last one of them said, "Oh, ain't he got mighty proud?"

[Illustration]




A DEAF AND DUMB SCULPTOR AT BRUSSELS.

A deaf and dumb sculptor named Van Louy de Canter has recently obtained
two prizes, one a silver medal with a ribbon of Belgian colours, and a
second class award for his best work in marble; the other a bronze
medal; he has also an honourable certificate from the Belgian Exhibition
of 1880. It is encouraging to hear of his success, and to know that from
his devotion to the art, he will persevere in the right way to be a
credit to his country and to his numerous friends among the deaf and
dumb.




MONOGRAPH of the COLLEONBOLA & THYSANURA.

BY SIR JOHN LUBBOCK, BART, M.P., &C.

This work is one of the many magnificent contributions to the literature
of natural history issued by the Royal Society. It treats of curious
animals which the author considers as more nearly allied to the Insecta
than to the Crustacea or Arachnid√¶. It is magnificently illustrated with
78 plates (31 being coloured), and the whole of the illustrations were
executed by a painstaking deaf and dumb artist, Mr. Hollick. It will
mark an era in the study of those neglected, but intensely curious
animals, and we doubt not will repay both author, and artist, and the
Society for the labour bestowed upon it.--_Daily Paper._




THE COUNTESS OF ORKNEY.

[Illustration]

The following curious anecdote is related of Mary, Countess of Orkney.
She was deaf and dumb, and was married in 1753, by signs. She lived with
her husband, who was also her first cousin, at his seat, Rostellan, on
the harbour of Cork. Shortly after the birth of her first child, the
nurse, with considerable astonishment, saw the mother cautiously
approach the cradle in which the infant was sleeping, evidently full of
some deep design. The Countess having perfectly assured herself that the
child really slept, took a large stone, which she had concealed under
her shawl, and to the horror of the nurse--who, like all persons of the
lower order in her country, indeed in most countries, was fully
impressed with an idea of the peculiar cunning and malignity of
"dumbies"--raised it with an intent to fling it down vehemently. Before
the nurse could interpose the Countess had flung the stone--not,
however, as the servant had apprehended at the child, but on the floor,
where of course it made a great noise. The child immediately awoke, and
cried. The Countess, who had looked with maternal eagerness to the
result of her experiment, fell on her knees in a transport of joy. She
had discovered that her child possessed the sense which was wanting in
herself.




[Illustration]

EPITAPH.

In St. Modwen's Churchyard at Burton-upon-Trent, Staffordshire, the
following inscription has been copied from the tombstone of a deaf and
dumb man:--

                        This Stone
                Was raised by Subscription
                     To the Memory of
                      THOMAS STOKES,
    An eccentric and much-respected deaf and dumb man,
               Better known by the name of
                        DUMB TOM,
          Who departed this life Feb. 25th, 1837,
                     Aged 57 years.

    "What man can pause, and charge the senseless dust
    With fraud, or subtlety, or aught unjust?
    How few can conscientiously declare
    Their acts have been as honourably fair?
    No gilded bait, no heart ensnaring meed,
    Could bribe poor Stokes to one dishonest deed:
    Firm in attachment, to his friends most true--
    Though deaf and dumb he was excell'd by few.
    Go ye, by nature formed, without defect,
    And copy Tom, and gain as much respect."




A HAPPY DEATH BED.

Not long ago there died in the county Wexford, in Ireland, a deaf and
dumb shoemaker named Henry Plunkett. He had for many years been a true
and sincere christian, and therefore when he came to die he was not
afraid, but rejoiced at the thought of meeting his Saviour. During the
last few hours of his life on earth he suffered much pain; but he was
quite sensible, and made signs that if the house was piled up with gold
he would not take it all and live, for, he said, pointing his hand
upwards, "I wish to go up." To the woman who attended him he signed, "Do
not fret, not never; I am going to Jesus." "The contrast between the
white face--white as marble--and the long jet black hair and beard is
striking," wrote the clergyman who sent this account, shortly after his
death. But beautiful as he looked in death, he looks far more beautiful
in heaven, where he now is, clothed in the white robe of Christ's
righteousness, which he has provided for all who truly love and serve
him.




THE COMING MAYORALTY.

The state coach for the Lord Mayor elect will be furnished by Mr. J.
Offord, of Wells Street and Brook Street, who has also supplied the
chariot for Mr. Sheriff Johnson. The coach for the new Lord Mayor is
quite in harmony with modern ideas and taste. The side windows, instead
of being rounded off in the corners as formerly, are cut nearly square,
to follow the outlines of the body. This novelty renders the body of the
carriage much lighter than usual, and more elegant in appearance.
Another 'innovation' is the painting. It has hitherto been usual to
paint the under part of the carriage white or drab, relieved by the same
colour as the body, but in the present case the whole vehicle has been
painted a dark green, the family colour of the Lord Mayor elect,
relieved by large lines of gold upon the body, and gold and red upon the
under carriage. The natural elegance of this arrangement of colouring is
heightened by the beautiful heraldic paintings of the City arms and
those of the Fishmongers' and Spectacle Makers' Companies, of which Mr.
Alderman Lusk is a member. These have been executed by Mr. D. T. Baker,
the celebrated deaf and dumb artist.--_The Times_, 1883.




THE DEAF AND DUMB IN TEXAS.

Deaf and Dumb men have a poor chance in Texas. One of them went to a
farmhouse, and, when asked what he wanted, put his hand in his pocket to
get a pencil, and he was at once shot down by the farmer, who thought
his visitor was feeling for a pistol.




THE INDIANS AND DEAF AND DUMB.

[Illustration]

We are quite sure the Indians were delighted by the reception tendered
them by the children of the public schools and the inmates of the
Institutions for the Blind and Deaf and Dumb last Friday, in the Academy
of Music, but their happiness was made complete, on Sunday evening, at
the La Pierre house, by a visit which they received from six of the
pupils, all girls, of the Deaf and Dumb Institute, accompanied by the
Principal, Mr. Foster, and one of the teachers. On their arrival at the
hotel they were received by Mr. Welsh, the humane commissioner, and
shown into a well furnished private parlour, when they were introduced,
one by one, to General Smith and his Indians, whose faces plainly showed
the delight which their hearts felt. They at once singled out the two
girls who had taken part in the reception at the Academy, and bestowed
upon them special marks of friendship.

Tea being announced in a few minutes, the whole party proceeded to the
dining room, where they were seated at well spread tables, three Indians
and one mute at each. Here the striking similarity between the signs
used by the Indians of the West and our deaf mutes was plainly
observable in the spirited conversation which ensued. The merry laughter
which broke forth from these usually quiet stolid men was sufficient to
mark their keen appreciation of what was said. One old chief, slightly
confused, sought to excuse his awkwardness with the knife and fork to
one of the young ladies, by stating that at home he never used them,
but ate with his fingers. They exchanged signs for butter, coffee, milk,
meat, bread, salt, sugar, knife, fork, &c., which were remarkably
similar.

After tea the whole party assembled in the parlour, and then began a
scene indescribable. The Indians, wild with delight, talked away to the
mutes, who, equally happy, seemed to catch and understand everything
they said. They described their homes, their hunting expeditions, their
wives and children; how they lived and how they buried their dead. One
of them gave a very graphic account of the great snowstorms which
frequently occur among the mountains. One told about the wars he had
engaged in, and the number of scalps he had taken, and then asked the
teacher if he had ever killed a man, and on receiving a reply in the
negative, seemed quite disgusted. Another, a great rider, said that with
them the horses had plenty of grass to eat, and were fat, but here, in
the city, they had none, and were consequently very poor. Another old
chief, a very fine looking man, stated that he had a large family of
children at home, and then asked the smallest of the girls if she
wouldn't go home with him, promising to bring her back as soon as she
had taught his little boys and girls how to make signs like the mutes.

These wild men seemed thoroughly at home in the presence of the
children, their habitual restlessness and reserve disappeared; they had
met for once white persons with whom they could converse without the
tedious process of interpreting, and the conversation, as Mr. Welsh
expressed it, went directly to their hearts. In parting with their young
visitors, the Indians freely expressed the pleasure which their visit
had afforded them, then sorrow at the separation, and promised to relate
all that had occurred to their friends and kindred in the West.

When it is remembered that all this and much more took place between a
delegation of wild Indians and six mute girls attending the Institution
in our city, it certainly will be considered remarkable, and probably
never before in the history of civilization has such a meeting occurred.
As a means of communication with the wild tribes roaming over our
western plains, the capacity of the sign-language of mutes can hardly be
over estimated, and a few well-trained mute missionaries could, without
doubt, be made the instruments for accomplishing much good among this
down-trodden despised race.--_New York Herald._

[Illustration]




EXHIBITION, 1851.

At the great Exhibition in 1851 there was exhibited a set of oak tables
and cabinet of Stanton oak, combined with glass and ormolu, etc., made
and carved by three deaf and dumb persons; the castings by Marsh, of
Dudley.




A MATE FOR LAURA BRIDGMAN.

[Illustration]

Hetty Hutson lives in the city of Wilkes-Barre, Pennsylvania, a girl
seventeen years old, who has been deaf and dumb and blind from birth.
She is active in her nature, and has a remarkably intelligent mind.
Through the one medium of gestures, as perceived by the touch, she
understands wonderfully well, and in turn makes herself understood. She
will wipe dishes and put them away with scrupulous care and exactness;
will go down the cellar alone at her mother's bidding and get apples;
then, running up with astonishing rapidity, will give them to anyone she
is bid, and put her own into her pocket. At a motion from her father she
will go upstairs and get his best hat, deciding by touching his
broadcloth suit which hat he wants. She knits and sews in a very
creditable style, and manifests a desire to learn to do other kinds of
work. She is neat and orderly in her habits, and ever acts in a ladylike
manner, while in disposition she is cheerful as a sunbeam, and as
playful as a kitten. For about one year, at irregular intervals, a young
minister of the name of J. B. Howell, devoted one hour each week to her
instruction, and she made some advancement, novel as his method was; but
in June last he went to Brazil as a missionary, since which time she has
been without instruction until recently. She is now receiving daily
instruction by means of the manual alphabet. It is, however, to be
regretted that her present teacher is an entire novice in the work she
has undertaken, but as she has large sympathy for her, and individual
experience as to the needs of her pupil, it seems safe to hope that she
may lay a substantial foundation, upon which some more accomplished
person may build an education which will make this greatly afflicted
being equal to Laura Bridgman, of world wide fame.




A THOUGHT OF THE SOUTH SEA ISLANDERS.

Among some of the islands of the South Sea the compound word for "hope"
is beautifully expressive; it is "manaolona" or "swimming
thought"--"faith" floating and keeping its head aloft above water, when
all the waves and billows are going over it--a strikingly beautiful
definition of "hope," worthy to be set down along with the answer which
a deaf and dumb person wrote with his pencil, in reply to the question
"What is your idea of forgiveness?" "It is the odour which flowers yield
when trampled on."




DEAF, DUMB, BLIND, AND LAME.

David Simons, of Boston, is deaf and dumb; he is also blind; likewise he
is lame. Penniless he is, and houseless. Finally, he is black, which may
or may not be considered a misfortune. No,--finally he was run over by a
team and dreadfully bruised. Yet we suppose that John Simons still
desires to live, for he consented to be carried to a hospital.--_Deaf
Mute Advance._




INTERNATIONAL EXHIBITION.

(From _The Graphic_, May, 1874.)

Messrs. Doulton and Co., who have done so well with stoneware,
dignifying the simplest material by giving even to the most ordinary and
cheapest articles shapes of real beauty, exhibit in Room 9 a most
praiseworthy set of examples (3719) of very remarkable art and
character, demonstrating principally possibilities of wall decoration.
On the floor at the base of the division are some noble pieces of
graphite stoneware contributed by Mr. Frank A. Butler, who is deaf and
dumb.




A YOUNG GENIUS.

(From the Journal of the Society of Arts, May 1, 1874.)

Another artist who has made his mark on the ware by the originality of
his forms is Frank A. Butler. He is quite deaf and almost dumb. He is
one of many thus heavily afflicted who have passed through the school.
He began his artistic life as a designer of stained glass, but his
invention was not needed, nor, I dare say, discovered in the practice of
an art which is almost traditional. I introduced him to the new work,
and in a few months he brought out many new thoughts from the silent
seclusion of his mind. A bold originality of treatment, and the gift of
invention, are characteristic of his work. He has struck out many new
paths. A certain massing together of floral forms, and ingenious
treatment of discs, dots, and interlacing lines indicate his hand.




THE LITTLE DEMERARIAN.

[Illustration]

A little coloured deaf and dumb girl in Demerara came to Mrs. H----'s
school, and wished to learn to read. It was thought impossible to teach
her; the missionary's wife therefore shook her head, and made signs for
her to go home. But she would take no denial; so Mrs. H---- sent to
England for the "Deaf and Dumb Alphabet." It was astonishing how quickly
the child was taught to read the New Testament, from which she learned
to know Jesus as her Saviour. One day she signed to her kind teacher,
"Missie, me too happy. You would think when me walk out that there were
two people in the road; but it is Jesus and me. He talk and me talk, and
we two so happy together."




DRAUGHTS.

Mr. James Wyllie (the Herd Laddie), the greatest living draught player,
has been in Aberdeen for a whole week, playing in public against all
comers. He played altogether 98 games, of which he won 79, lost 3, and 6
drawn. It is worthy of notice that three of the draws were secured by
Mr. Benjamin Price, a deaf mute, and a well known local
player.--_Scotsman._




THE UNWELCOME TAP.

[Illustration]

Isabella Green was a young woman who was completely blind and deaf, and
she was brought before a number of eminent surgeons to see if anything
could be done for her. Her sad condition had been produced by violent
pain in the head. The only method of communicating with her was by
tapping her hand, which signified no, and squeezing it, which signified
yes. The surgeons concluded that her case was incurable, and in reply to
her earnest inquiries she received the unwelcome tap. She immediately
burst into tears, in all the bitterness of anguish. "What!" said she,
"shall I never see the light of day, or hear a human voice? Must I
remain shut up in darkness and silence as long as I live?" A friend who
was present took up a Bible and placed it to her breast. She put her
hands on it, and asked "Is this the Bible?" Her hand was squeezed in
reply. She immediately clasped it in her hands, and held it to her
bosom, and exclaimed, "This is the only comfort I have left. I shall
never be able to look upon its blessed pages, but I can think of the
promises I have learned from it." And she then began to repeat some of
the promises--"Cast thy burden upon the Lord, and He will sustain thee;"
"Call upon me in the day of trouble, and I will deliver thee;" "My grace
is sufficient for thee," &c. She dried her tears, and became peacefully
submissive to the will of God.




COROT AND HIS PUPIL.

Corot the Artist had a deaf and dumb pupil. The young fellow was
employed in copying one of his master's beautiful pencil drawings, when
he even tried to imitate a stain of glue which was on the paper. Corot,
when he saw it, smiled, and said, or at least wrote, "Tr√®s bien, mon
ami; mais quand vous serez devant la nature; vous ne verrez pas de
taches." "(Very well, my friend; but when you are before nature you will
not see any stains.)"

M. Jean Baptist Corot, the great French landscape painter, died February
23rd, 1875, aged 79.




DUMB FOR TWO YEARS.

Two years ago, says the _Auburn Advertizer_, George Scott, one of a gang
of desperadoes in New York City, committed a robbery, for which he ought
to have received ten years in prison. When he was arrested he feigned to
be deaf and dumb. Upon his trial he made much of his infirmity, and the
result was that he succeeded in escaping with a sentence of two years.
Being transferred from Sing Sing to Auburn prison, he still kept up
appearances, by means of which he escaped from doing heavy work, but was
assigned to duty in shoe shop No. 1 as waiter, being supposed to be fit
for no more valuable service. He was sharp, ready and intelligent, and
generally well behaved, though hot tempered. Keeper Bacon, under whom
he was placed, had him always under strict surveillance, but never was
led to suspect by anything in his conduct that he was not deaf and dumb.
Indeed, he says that he once saw Scott, who always went in the shop by
the name of "Dummy," so roused up and maddened by something that had
occurred, that he thought he would go crazy, yet he gave no sign that he
was otherwise in respect to hearing and speaking than he seemed. About
two months ago Dummy's time was up, and he was discharged. To give him a
start in life again, keeper Bacon hired him to do some gardening.
Principal keeper Gallup did the same thing. He worked in this way for
two or three weeks. While at his work children would talk to him and
play round him, yet he was always apparently oblivious to their
presence. But Dummy had a tongue and could use it, and his hearing was
as keen as anybody's. One day he fell in with a fellow convict who had
just been discharged from prison, and they went off up the street
together, talking gaily. Captain Russell, foreman in one of the
departments of the prison shoe shop, who was in the street, overheard
their conversation; and on another occasion it happened that one of the
keepers met Dummy at Louis Schuch's and talked with him for a long time.




THE BACHELOR OF SCIENCE.

A fact without precedent has just happened at the Sorbonne. A young deaf
mute, M. Dusuzeau, underwent recently with success the examinations for
the degree of "Bachelor of Science." This distinguished pupil has
answered by writing all the questions which have been put to him. This
success, unexpected a few years ago, greatly honours the Imperial
Institution in Paris, and is due to the high standard which its learned
director, M. Vaisse, maintains in the studies, and to the devotedness of
the censor, M. Valade Reoni, head master of the instruction, and who has
been the affectionate master of M. Dusuzeau.

M. Dusuzeau was married on the third of March last, at the church of St.
Germain, l'Auxerrois, Paris, to Miss Matilda Freeman, daughter of James
B. Freeman, Esq., of Philadelphia, in the presence of a distinguished
circle of friends. Miss Freeman stayed in England some months in 1882,
and is therefore well known to many of our deaf and dumb friends.




LIKE THE COPY.

Florence B----, a little girl in the Deaf and Dumb Institution at Derby,
was painting in water colours during her leisure hours. She had been
told to be very careful with the card she was painting, and do it
exactly the same as the copy, and to these instructions she strictly
adhered. When the card was finished she took it to the head master, who
at once noticed a black spot painted on a bright flower. On being told
she had spoilt the card with doing this, she replied "But it's like the
copy," and at once produced it, when it was found that by some means an
ink spot had got on the copy.




"DRUNKEN BILLY."

[Illustration]

A poor deaf and dumb man, who might be said to be entirely friendless in
the world until the Institution of the Deaf and Dumb was formed at
Derby, was continually in trouble, owing to his intemperate habits.
"Drunken Billy," as he was called by some, had however a tender place in
his heart, and we frequently visited him at his lodgings and assisted
him in various ways. After a time Billy was persuaded to sign the
temperance pledge, and began to attend the lectures and services for the
adult deaf and dumb. For a time all went well, but one hot summer day
one of his fellow workmen, who ought to have known better, knowing that
Billy had signed the temperance pledge, offered him a shilling if he
would drink a glass of ale he held in his hand. The temptation was too
strong for Billy to resist, and having taken one, it was not easy for
him to resist a second, and in the end poor Billy got taken up by the
police. The head master of the Institution at Derby appeared, by
request, to interpret the evidence, and it transpired that Billy had
been sent to prison in the same month, June, each year, for the seven
previous years. The magistrates however expressed their reluctance at
sending Billy to prison, and asked him, through the interpreter, if he
would try and keep sober, and if he would again sign the pledge; this he
promised to do, and the magistrates on the bench not only dismissed the
case, but each became subscribers of one guinea annually to the Deaf and
Dumb Institution. Billy, true to his promise kept sober, and again
attended the services for the deaf and dumb, and when nearly 70 years of
age gave a brief lecture of his "Life's Experiences" to the deaf and
dumb, which caused considerable amusement, especially his remarks about
Derby fifty years ago. Billy was always thankful for the help rendered
him by the Institution, and frequently said "If he might have his way he
would be glad to die and get to heaven where he could hear." Poor
Billy's life was a hard one, for death took a good wife and four little
ones during the first ten years of his wedded life, and one by one the
whole of his relations passed away. Billy has now done with temptation,
and recently passed away to the majority, his last remarks bearing
testimony to the value of the Institution for the Deaf and Dumb.




RAPID BICYCLE TRAVELLING.

Yesterday week a young man named Sydney Cornwall, of Coventry, started
at six o'clock in the morning for Salisbury (a distance of 128 miles) on
a bicycle. On the morning following his friends received a letter from
him, posted at Taunton, stating that he had reached that place and had
yet fourteen miles to go that evening; and a subsequent letter on
Wednesday morning informed them that he had arrived at his destination
at six o'clock on Tuesday evening, having stopped the previous night at
a hostelry some miles beyond Taunton. This young man is deaf and dumb,
and his enquiries for the right road must have cost him some
considerable time. The driving wheel of his machine is only forty inches
in diameter.--_Bicycle News._




HEROIC CONDUCT OF A DEAF AND DUMB GIRL.

[Illustration]

On Tuesday last an inquest was held by Mr. Michael Fullam, Coroner, at
Aughaward, near Ballinale in this County, on the body of a respectable
middle class farmer named James Prunty. It appears the deceased, a
feeble old man of 76 years of age, went into an out-house occupied by
his own bull for the purpose of cleaning it out, and while in the act of
doing so, the bull broke its chain and turned on him. By the
interposition of providence, his daughter, a deaf mute, happened to come
that way, and looked into the bull-house, her attention having been
attracted by seeing the door lying open; and there, at the instant her
eyes rested on the interior, she saw her aged father tossed high in the
air above the bull's head; when he fell on the ground the bull gored him
with his horns, pawed him with his feet, and raged with fury. The daring
girl--the poor deaf mute--did not hesitate for an instant, but with most
surprising presence of mind rushed to the rescue. She caught up the old
man's stick which she saw on the floor as she entered, and seizing the
bull by a copper ring in his nose, she thrashed him soundly on the head.
The struggle was terrific--it was one of life and death, both for
herself and the old man who now lay helpless at her feet. The bull did
not tamely submit to his chastisement, but directed his assault on the
lone girl; he tore her from her ankle to her armpit, struck her on the
breast, and dashed her against the wall: but still she clung with a
death grasp to his nose, and belaboured him with the stick, until she
finally conquered and forced the infuriated animal to yield to her
command. She then threw away the stick, and changing the ring into her
right hand, raised the disabled old man from the ground and carried him
on her left arm outside the door, forced back the bull, and closed the
door in his face. Such heroic conduct as this has seldom been manifested
by the bravest of men, but it is almost beyond credence that the deaf
mute who was examined before the jury through an interpreter could have
performed such an extraordinary feat. Yet so it was, and the jurors one
and all were thoroughly satisfied with the clear and intelligible
description of the most minute particulars of the occurrence exhibited
by this most wonderful girl. It is sad to say that after all her
exertions, the poor old man died in an hour after his release from the
bull-house. The jury handed to the coroner the following memorandum at
the close of the proceedings:--

     "We cannot separate without putting on record our entire
     admiration of the heroic conduct of Bridget Prunty (an orphan
     and deaf mute), who, at the risk of her life, relieved her aged
     father, James Prunty, from the furious assault of his own bull,
     (from the effects of which he died yesterday), by catching him
     by a ring in his nose, and while holding him back, carried the
     old man on her left arm out of the house in which he was
     attacked: and we urgently recommend her to the notice of those
     benevolent gentlemen who appreciate and reward such an act of
     noble daring for the preservation of human life."

     "Given at Aughaward, 22nd Jan., 1878,
             BARTHOLOMEW QUINN, Foreman."
         (For self and fellows),
                 "M. FULLAM, Coroner."

_Longford Journal._

We are glad to say that on hearing of the bravery of this little deaf
and dumb girl, Mr. Harman, M.P., at once sent ¬£5, and many other friends
also shewed their appreciation of the girl's conduct in a practical way.




The following touching lines were composed by a _Deaf_ friend after
seeing the account in the "Longford Journal":--

     THE BRAVE DEAF MUTE.

     The tale of bravery I tell,
       Will your attention hold,
     Though not performed on battle field,
       Nor by a warrior bold.

     An Irish girl, to whom the Lord
       Nor speech nor hearing gave,
     Tho' but a poor deaf mute was she,
       Her heart was stout and brave.

     Deaf, dumb, yes, poor and motherless,
       Friendless and obscure;
     Only her father left to her,
       And he was old and poor.

     A farmer he, and owned a bull,
       That in a shed was chained,
     For it was savage, but one day
       Its liberty obtained.

     The poor old man was unaware
       The bull had broke its chain,
     Until the beast upon him turned
       Ere he the door could gain.

     The dumb girl neared the open shed,
       As she the threshold crossed;
     Oh! dreadful sight, her father high
       By savage bull was tossed.

     She could not hear if help was nigh,
       She could not call for aid;
     So quick to rescue him she ran,
       Too brave to feel afraid.

     One hand she slipped within a ring,
       That through its nose was placed;
     And with her father's stick upraised,
       The angry bull she faced.

     Oh! then ensued a struggle, fit
       To fill her heart with dread;
     While at her feet her father lay,
       To all appearance dead.

     Long and fierce the battle raged
       Between the bull and maid;
     Nor would she yield, tho' by its horns
       Her side was open laid.

     Blow after blow upon its head,
       With heavy stick she rained,
     Until the savage beast was cowed,
       And she the victory gained.

     And then the stick away she threw,
       (But held on as before,)
     Her father with one arm she raised,
       And slowly neared the door.

     Then back into the shed she forced
       The bull, and slammed the door,
     While in her aching, bleeding arms,
       Her father's form she bore.

     But, sad to say, her father dear,
       Whom thus to save she tried,
     Had been so injured by the bull,
       In one short hour he died.

     An orphan now, alone and poor,
       Homeless, and deaf and dumb;
     Oh, who will help some christian friends,
       To make for her a home?

     If you who read these simple lines,
       With speech and hearing blest,
     And have it in your power to aid
       And comfort the distressed,

     Oh! think of this brave-hearted girl,
       And help her in her need;--
     With voice and pen on her behalf
       For timely help I plead.




A VICTORY.

Peter Sims, a deaf and dumb boy, was walking past a large shop one day
in winter, when he saw a beautiful pair of skates in the window. He had
often wished for skates that he might skate upon the ice, and when he
saw these he desired to have them. He looked; no one was watching; he
thought, "I can take these skates easily, and no one will know."

Before he had been sent to school this boy had been a very bad boy; he
had often stolen little articles, but now he was learning about God, and
he knew that God had said "Thou shalt not steal." As he stood looking at
the skates this commandment came into his mind, and there was a struggle
in his heart. His old bad nature said, "Take the skates;" his conscience
answered, "No, for it is wrong to steal." At last he made the signs,
"steal, bad, not" (he was seen, though he did not know it), and went on
without taking them. He had gained a great victory over the temptation
of the devil, and the next time he was so tempted the fight was not so
severe, as sin had less power over him.




THE QUEEN AND THE DEAF AND DUMB.

Not far from Osborne House, Isle of Wight, there lives a poor man in a
small cottage, who a few years ago had a deaf and dumb daughter, who
used to do a great deal of knitting for the Queen. Her Majesty
frequently visited this woman, and used to talk to her on her fingers.
The deaf and dumb woman is now dead, and during her illness the Queen
visited her and talked to her for her comfort. Her Majesty apologised
that she could not now talk so fast as when she was young.




EXAMPLE.

Vauncey, a little deaf and dumb boy, was admitted to the Institution, at
Derby, and night and morning he would watch with keen interest the other
boys kneeling at the bed-side, and spelling on their fingers their
prayers. In a few days the little boy learnt the alphabet, and the head
master on going upstairs to look round, was surprised to see him
kneeling reverently by his bed-side, eyes closed, and spelling on his
fingers the alphabet right through. A strange prayer, the reader will
think; but not so to our Heavenly Father, who doubtless would accept it
as the poor boy's best offering.




[Illustration]

THE CONVERTED MUTE.

During a revival of religion in one of the New England villages, a son
of the clergyman returned home for a brief visit. The lad was a deaf
mute, and had spent his first term in the Deaf and Dumb Institution,
just then commencing its history. His parents having no knowledge of the
language of signs, and the boy being an imperfect writer, it was almost
impossible to interchange with him any but the most familiar ideas. He,
therefore, heard nothing of the revival. But before he had been at home
many days, he began to manifest signs of anxiety, and at length wrote
with much labour upon his slate, "Father, what must I do to be saved?"
His father wrote in reply, "My son, you must repent of sin, and believe
in the Lord Jesus Christ." "How must I do this?" asked the boy again
upon his slate. His father explained to him as well as he could, but the
poor untaught boy could not understand. He became more than ever
distressed; would leave the house in the morning for some retired place,
and would be seen no more until his father went in search of him. One
evening, at sunset, he was found upon the top of the hay, under the roof
of the barn, on his knees, his hands uplifted and praying to God in the
signs of the mutes. The distress of the parents was so intense, that
they sent for one of the teachers of the Asylum, and then for another;
but it seemed that the boy could not be guided to the Saviour of
sinners. One afternoon the father was on his way to fulfil an engagement
in a neighbouring town, and as he drove leisurely over the hills, the
poor inquiring and helpless son was continually in his thoughts. In the
midst of his supplications his heart became calm, and his long
distracted spirit was serene in the one thought that God was able to do
his own work. The speechless boy at length began to tell how he loved
his Saviour, and that he first found peace on the very afternoon when
the spirit of his father on the mountains was calmed and supported by
the thought that what God had promised he was able to perform.




"NOTHING BAD."

On entering the school room one morning, one of the little deaf and dumb
girls quickly turned over her slate, and colouring in the face. The
teacher asked, "What have you been doing?" The girl signed, in reply,
"Nothing bad, sir." On turning over the slate we found the girl had
written "Drunkenness clothes a man with rags."




A SAD CASE.

[Illustration]

T---- L---- lived near Derby. Hers was a sad case--deaf, dumb, and so
nearly blind that she had to be led about; moreover, she suffered from
extreme weakness in the legs, and was delicate on the chest. Her father
being dead, it was difficult for her to obtain the necessaries of life,
and it was thought the workhouse must be her future home. The case was
brought under the notice of the Committee of the Deaf and Dumb
Institution at Derby, who decided not to let her go into the workhouse
without trying what could be done for her. Accordingly she came under
their care, and gradually became stronger; but the difficulties in the
way of her education, owing to her sight, were not easily overcome, in
fact she had to be taught as one perfectly deaf, dumb, and blind. She
however made good progress, and is now a good tempered, hard working
girl, actually earning her own living. She can wash and scour and knit
and sew quite as well as many persons blessed with the senses of sight
and hearing. She frequently attends the meetings for the adult deaf and
dumb, and always has something interesting to say, especially on
religious subjects.




A DEAF AND DUMB CLERGYMAN.

Among those who were ordained deacons on Trinity Sunday last year by the
Bishop of Winchester was Mr. R. A. Pearce, who is deaf and dumb, and who
is to devote himself specially to Missionary work among the deaf mutes
in the diocese of Winchester. The Rev. C. M. Owen, Secretary to the
Mission, believes that this is the first instance of a deaf and dumb man
being ordained in the Church of England.--_Irish Ecclesiastical
Gazette_.

The Rev. R. A. Pearce has had the honour of being presented to the
Queen. Mr. Pearce has visited the Institution for the Deaf and Dumb at
Derby.




A DEAF MUTE'S BEAUTIFUL ANSWER.

The Rev. R. Stewart says: "I knew of a gentleman who went to a Deaf and
Dumb Asylum to make known to the inmates the way of salvation through
Jesus Christ. He asked questions by means of writing them on a
blackboard. One day he wrote the question, 'What does God do with the
sins of the people who believe in Him?' One of the lads wrote below the
question, 'All our sins were written in God's book, but Jesus came and
drew His bleeding hand across the pages where the sins of the people
were entered who believe in Him; thus covering over with His own blood
the transgressions of His people.' Was this poor deaf and dumb lad
right? Yes, indeed, for 'The blood of Jesus Christ, God's Son, cleanseth
us from _all_ sin.'"




"I MUST HELP."

[Illustration]

The following little incident will show how interested the deaf and dumb
are in trying to help Institutions struggling to obtain monetary support
in order to admit the numerous cases pressing for admission. A number of
the pupils from the Institution at Derby were present at a meeting, when
the head master was advocating its claims for support. At the close of
the meeting a deaf and dumb young man came up and said, "I have been
very pleased with what I saw the children do, they will soon be very
clever. I hope the people will all help you; other people helped me to
get a good education, now _I must help_ others who are deaf and dumb to
go to school. I will try and collect ¬£5 for you." True to his promise he
did collect ¬£5, and sent it saying, "Next year I must try and collect
¬£10." A little time since he called at the Institution with the handsome
sum of ¬£10, which he had collected in pence from 371 persons. Several
other deaf mutes have shown their interest by collecting ¬£1 to ¬£3 from
time to time.




CANON FARRAR WITH THE DEAF AND DUMB.

[Illustration]

The _Washington Post_ gives an account of Canon Farrar's visit to that
city. He was interviewed by one of their reporters as to what he thought
of the place, and he replied that he was greatly pleased, but what
interested him most was the Deaf Mute College. He was of opinion there
was nothing of its kind in the world. The Canon was conducted through
the College by Dr. Gallaudet, the president, who explained to him the
various arrangements, after which Mr. Olof Hanson, a Swede, who has
mastered English since the loss of his hearing, delivered orally the
following address:--Two and a half centuries ago the Pilgrim Fathers
laid the foundation of the nation. America may in a sense be called the
child of England--and a well-grown child, of which she need not be
ashamed. In visiting this country, therefore, you do not, we trust, feel
like a stranger, but, as it were, among relatives and friends.
Archdeacon Farrar is no stranger to us; his beautiful "Life of Christ"
is a well-known volume in many a public and private American library,
and there are few who have not read his noble eulogy on our departed
hero, General Grant. As a friend then, we bid him welcome. Permit me now
to say a few words about the instruction of the deaf in this country. In
1817 the first deaf mute school in America was founded at Hartford,
Connecticut; there are now upwards of sixty schools for the deaf and
dumb in the United States, and to day more than 7000 pupils receiving
instruction. The minds of the deaf are just like those of other people,
and only need to be developed. Although the avenue of the ear is
closed, through the other senses information is imparted, and sight,
being the most convenient, is chiefly made use of in instructing the
deaf; but to teach them persons of experience and intelligence are
required, and to obtain such teachers money is necessary. Our Government
has wisely recognised this, and it accordingly makes liberal provision
for educating the deaf, as well as the hearing, all our institutions
being supported mainly by the Government. It was long doubted that the
deaf could master the higher branches of study, and it has been reserved
for this college to see if they can. In this country we have the deaf as
teachers, lawyers, chemists, artists, clergymen, editors, &c. Many take
a most creditable rank among the hearing persons in their professions.
Among the graduates of this college will be found some of the most
intelligent and best educated deaf mutes in the world. The college is
the only one of its kind in existence. Two young men from the old world
have come all the way here to obtain an education which they could not
get at home. They are cordially welcomed, and we hope many more will
come until the time arrives when they have a college of their own, where
they may acquire the advantages of a high and liberal education. Mr.
Francis Maginn, son of the Rev. C. A. Maginn, county Cork, was then
introduced to Canon Farrar, and his address read by Dr. Gallaudet. "As
one of the two students from Europe just alluded to by my friend, I have
the pleasure of welcoming my distinguished countryman, Archdeacon
Farrar, to Washington. Having acquired the rudiments of my education in
the metropolis of Great Britain, where you from Sunday to Sunday expound
the unsearchable riches of Christ, and being a native of Ireland, where
my father ministers in the Church of Ireland, it is but natural I should
express my deep gratification that you should have come amongst my
American brethren in affliction. I am sure, sir, that you have felt as I
have done when coming to the great and prosperous United States, that
the American people is one of which we may well be proud--a great and
highly civilised people, with whom we are connected by every tie of
blood, and every relation of business--they are a people who bear our
civilisation, in many things improved, our language, literature, laws,
and religion. In an educational point of view the nation is prominent,
and her silent children have the advantages of spacious institutions,
supported by her revenues. It is greatly to be regretted that our
brethren in Great Britain enjoy none of these elaborate advantages of
intellectual culture. Whilst Mr. Foster's Act benefits thousands, and
while $15,000,000 are annually voted for the masses, one third of the
mutes of right school age are being left uneducated. What that means,
the English have no conception, or they would not be apathetic or
unconcerned; no class when uneducated is more entirely cut off from all
human intercourse than the deaf and dumb." The Canon, in reply,
expressed his thanks for the cordial reception given him, and concluded
with a short prayer, which was interpreted by Dr. Gallaudet, President
of the Deaf and Dumb College.




DEAF AND DUMB SOLDIERS.

During the Franco-German War, an army corps of 400 deaf and dumb
Frances-Tireurs were led to battle against the Germans.--_Paris
Journal._




ROBERT S. LYONS.

Robert S. Lyons went about Ireland last summer visiting the deaf and
dumb, and talking to them about Jesus. He was then home for vacation
from America, where he had gone to study, in order to fit himself to be
a missionary to the deaf and dumb. We all hoped that he would have
entered on his duties as such this summer, and that many of his deaf
country men and women would have been helped by him on the way to
heaven. But God has ordered it otherwise. He died at his father's
residence, near Newtownstewart, after a long and painful illness, on the
evening of Friday, the 5th of June last.

Mr. Francis Maginn, who is also deaf and dumb, went with Robert Lyons to
America last autumn, and left his studies in the College that he might
take care of him on the journey home, has written some reminiscences of
his friend, of which the following is a part:--

     "It was my privilege to be his companion on his return to
     Washington, and to share the same rooms. He spent much time in
     Bible reading and prayer. He was attacked in February last with
     a serious illness, which he bore with wonderful patience. At
     one time his death was expected. We sat up one night watching
     for his last breath, but life was lengthened.

     He seemed to improve for a while, and was able to go out for a
     drive in the President's carriage. Every comfort was his,
     supplied by the kind ladies of Dr. Gallaudet's family. Flowers,
     books, pictures; every delicacy possible constantly sent to
     tempt the appetite; but his strength scarcely increased.
     Prayers were daily offered on his behalf. Even a little girl
     prayed daily for him, and said, 'I know God will hear my
     prayers, and he will recover.' But such was not the will of
     God. He was sent home, and given up to my care. The voyage was
     fine four days, when a gale arose which lasted five days, and
     tried his strength terribly. He seemed sinking, and said, 'I
     will not live to see my parents again.' I said, 'You will, if
     you trust in God, and if it is His will.' When we came to see
     lights of the Irish coast we felt joy and comfort. Arrived in
     Londonderry he had scarcely any strength to stand. When
     Newtownstewart was reached his relations and I knew each other
     by our troubled and anxious faces."

His sister wrote that on the last two occasions that his mother talked
to him of his sufferings his reply each time was, "If we suffer with Him
(Jesus), we shall reign with Him." Again, he said he left himself in the
hands of his Lord, to take him or leave him as He pleased. He breathed
his last in the arms of his brother John, on Friday, the 5th of June, at
10.30 p.m. The end was so peaceful that they could not tell when the
last breath was drawn.

The funeral took place on Monday, the 8th, when the long procession of
vehicles, some forty or fifty in number, bore testimony to the love and
respect with which he was regarded in his own neighbourhood. Next after
the chief mourners walked Samuel Carrigan and young M'Causland, two deaf
mutes who loved and honoured him. Many others would have been present
also, had it been in their power, for Robert had the love and regard of
all the deaf and dumb who knew him.


_Copy of a letter given to R. S. Lyons on leaving America, by Dr.
Gallaudet, President of the College:--_

     National Deaf Mute College, Kendal Green,
         Near Washington.

     MY DEAR ROBERT,--I want to give you more than a mere "good-bye"
     in words, as you take your leave of us. I want to tell you how
     much I have been pleased with your course here as a student,
     how gratified I have been to see your pleasantness in your
     work, and how thoroughly you have won my respect and esteem;
     and then want to add that your patience and cheerfulness under
     the heavy cross of extreme illness has made you seem a real
     hero. It is an added pleasure to think that this heroism is of
     that sort which those sons of men alone exhibit who are filled
     with the spirit of our good and glorious leader, Christ. I
     believe, dear Robert, that you have that spirit, truly and
     fully, and I am sure it will sustain you in all future work. As
     you go far away over the ocean to your home, to your loved
     ones, and to that work which God will give you to do, my
     prayers will follow you daily that God will give you health and
     strength to do His will, and, above all, that the "peace of
     God" which passeth knowledge may fill your soul. Wishing you
     every blessing that earth and heaven can bestow,--I am, yours
     in loving friendship,

     E. M. GALLAUDET.




HELEN SILVIE.

[Illustration]

Helen Silvie was a Scotch girl. She was born in the village of Dunblane,
situated on the beautiful banks of the river Allan.

She lost her hearing by fever when about five years of age, and two
years after she was sent to the Edinburgh Institution for the Education
of the Deaf and Dumb.

She was a very shy child, and would not speak any words after she became
deaf, so she soon forgot how to do so, and when her education was begun,
she was nearly like a child born deaf.

For a time she was peevish and discontented; her mind was dark. But so
soon as she began to understand, it was as if light shone into her mind,
and she became cheerful and happy like her companions.

At first she did not seem very clever. But after two years she began to
improve fast, and soon was one of the best pupils in the Institution.
She was very amiable and affectionate, and a great favourite with her
companions.

When she grew up she became an assistant in the school, she taught one
of the junior classes in the early part of the day, and instructed the
girls in sewing in the evenings. For some years she was thus usefully
employed. But her brother wished her to go and live with him, and keep
house for him at Bannockburn, and she consented and left the
Institution.

After a time Helen wished to return to the Institution. So she wrote a
letter to a friend and asked her to find out if she would be allowed to
become a teacher again. But the Superintendent of the Institution was
ill, and no answer was sent to her letter. Then Helen thought she would
go herself to the Institution and see if they would employ her. It was
winter. She set out from Stirling in a steamer on the last day of the
year 1845, and arrived at Granton Pier at night. It was dark. A
gentleman offered to conduct her up the pier, but he did not know the
way. He should have turned to go towards the town, but he led her
straight on. They came to the edge of the pier, and in an instant both
were plunged into the sea. They were soon picked up, and carried to the
hotel. Helen soon seemed quite well, and she was sent on to the
Institution. She felt so happy at being again among her old friends that
she did not soon go to bed. She thought herself much better than she
was. She caught a very bad cold. In a few days inflammation of the lungs
came on. Her sufferings were very great, but, she bore them patiently;
and on Sabbath morning, the 18th of January, 1846, her spirit took its
flight to her Saviour's bosom.

Her pastor, who visited her on her death-bed, was much pleased to see
how fully she trusted in Jesus. He said of her after she died "I think
of her as one of the spirits of the just made perfect."




[Illustration]

A CAT ASSISTING A DEAF AND DUMB WOMAN.

The chill wind was moaning, the rain falling drearily, and day darkening
rapidly, when a lady might have been seen walking along quickly through
Eccles Street. She was thinking of home, with its bright warm fire, and
how soon she could get in out of the cold and wet.

Suddenly she stopped, as a feeble cry arrested her footsteps, and
looking round, she perceived a cat crouched against some steps. The
storm was beating on the poor harmless creature, and night coming on.

The lady did not turn away and hurry on, as some selfish people would
have done, but pitied and called the poor cat. It looked so forlorn, and
gave a frightened glance in her face. Gaining courage from what it saw
there, it trusted her, and jumped up, curled its tail over its back, and
trotted contentedly after her. The lady went on. When she looked back
now and then, there was pussy trotting steadily behind.

Presently the lady knocked at a hall door, and when it was opened they
passed into a bright room, and pussy sat down to dry before a warm fire,
where two other cats, sleek and well fed, kept her company. Well, our
puss, whose name was "Gipsy," very soon was lapping a saucer of warm
milk. After that she looked at the fire, and winked her eyes until she
fell asleep.

Sarah Darby, who is deaf and dumb, was at that time living in this
house. Pussy became very fond of Sarah, and liked to sit in her lap
because she was kind to it. Now Sarah did not think a cat could help
her, but she knew that God commands us to be kind to helpless creatures,
and He always rewards us when we obey Him.

You will wonder how a cat could help anyone, so I will tell you.
Sometimes Sarah was alone in the house, and when a knock came to the
hall door there was no one to tell her but puss, and puss did so. How?
She jumped down off Sarah's lap, and looked up in her face every time a
knock came, and after the door had been opened got on her lap again, and
waited for the next one. So this is how the cat helped the deaf and dumb
woman.




THE EARL OF SHAFTESBURY.

At a meeting in aid of the deaf and dumb held in Dundee, at which Lord
Panmure presided, a number of deaf and dumb children were present and
put through an examination. The question was put on the blackboard, "Who
is the greatest living statesman of Great Britain?" One of the boys
instantly wrote, "The Earl of Shaftesbury." The chairman patted the boy
on the head, and asked, "Why do you think the Earl of Shaftesbury is the
greatest living statesman?" The boy answered, "Because he cares a great
deal for the like of us deaf mutes."




DEAF AND DUMB LADY'S IDEA OF MUSIC.

[Illustration]

A lady who graduated from the Institution at New York some years ago,
was questioned as to the capacity of the deaf to enjoy music; she wrote:
"I think all deaf persons have an idea more or less vague of musical
sounds. It comes to all who cannot hear through the sense of touch. The
vibrations of the chords of a piano, when strongly played, are
sufficient to produce real enjoyment by means of feeling to one who can
touch the case merely. The soft, tremulous notes, even convey an
impression through the nerves, similar, I fancy, to that which others
obtain through the ear. But the real music for us comes through the eye.
The rippling of waves, the tremulous vibration of leaf and blossom and
twig, all these sights make for us a harmony perhaps as perfect as the
most finished orchestra."




HALF A SCORE DEAF MUTES.

On Tuesday evening last the Stamford Corn Exchange was crowded with
people eager to see half a score little deaf mutes from the Institution
at Derby. The children--six boys and four girls--caused considerable
amusement, and also pain to think they should be so afflicted. The
youngsters can draw, read, and write in a way that is surprising, and
some of the faces were marked by unusual brightness and
intelligence.--_Stamford Mercury_, Sep. 18th, 1884.




A DUMB DOG.

[Illustration]

A deaf and dumb lady living in a German city, had, as a companion, a
younger woman, who was also deaf and dumb. They lived in a small set of
rooms opening on the public corridor of the house. Somebody gave the
elder lady a dog as a present. For some time, whenever anybody rang the
bell at the door, the dog barked to call the attention of his mistress.
The dog soon discovered, however, that neither the bell nor the barking
made any impression on the women, and he took to the practice of merely
pulling one of them by the dress with his teeth, in order to explain
that some one was at the door. Gradually the dog ceased to bark
altogether, and for more than seven years before his death he remained
as mute as his two companions.




"CLEANSING FROM SIN."

Matthew Jones, a poor deaf and dumb boy, once wrote the meaning of Jesus
Christ's blood washing away sin. Being asked if he was afraid God would
punish him for his sins, he wrote this answer, "No, for when God sees my
name down in His book, and all the things I have done wrong, and all
that I have left undone, there will be a long account; but He won't be
able to read it, because Jesus Christ's bleeding hand will have blotted
all the account out, and He would see nothing on that page but the
Saviour's blood, for I have asked Him to wash all my sins away."




THE BIBLE AND THE DEAF AND DUMB.

The following is taken from the British and Foreign Bible Society's
Report for 1885, being an extract from one of their agents in Belgium
named Gazan:--"For the last fourteen years Gazan has been in the habit
of getting shaved by a barber who also keeps a drinking saloon. Though
not a member of a temperance society Gazan is an abstainer, and is none
the less welcome, and he occasionally is able to sell to persons who
frequent the place. One day last year when the barber's shop was full, a
man was there who had often prevented people buying, and when Gazan left
began to say all the harm he could of him. This he heard from the
barber's wife, who expressed great annoyance at it. Some time after a
young man, deaf and dumb, called upon Gazan and gave him to understand
he wanted a Bible. With the aid of a pencil they carried on a
conversation, in the course of which Gazan showed him several passages
marked in the Bible. This was on a Sunday morning, and in the afternoon
the deaf and dumb young man came back to attend the service, for which
Gazan lends his room; and he continued to come Sunday after Sunday, when
by signs and giving him passages to read he was interested in the
service. He was introduced to the deaf and dumb evangelist in Brussels,
and having found work as a printer, is living there now, lodging at the
house of M. Crispells, who holds the service at Louvain. On Christmas
Day he went to Louvain to see Gazan, and showed him a number of texts
which had been pointed out to him during his former visits, and showed
remarkable familiarity with the Scriptures. This deaf and dumb young man
is no other than the son of the man above referred to, who had spoken
against him in the barber's shop. The conversion of his son has had a
remarkable effect upon him; he is now quite a changed man, and does all
he can to assist Gazan and to induce people to buy his books."




CORK TEMPERANCE EXHIBITION.

The following were won by deaf mutes:--Both certificate and prize, E.
Morgan, for painted album; A. Corkey, doll's dress; B. Henderson, same;
J. Giveen, stitching; J. O'Sullivan, knitting; G. Seabury, laundry work.
Also, prizes were won by J. Armstrong, handwriting; L. Corkey, texts in
Bible album; E. Phibbs, doll's suit; E. Gray, knitting. A Bible album
made by deaf mutes at Cork was much admired. Each page has a picture
with a great many texts written round it.




GOOD INFLUENCE.

[Illustration]

A few years since an aged man, who had long been a sincere and devoted
christian, was placed in the same ward in the Infirmary of N----with a
deaf and dumb youth. The former received and enjoyed the visits of the
chaplain, whilst the latter was considered inaccessible to instruction.
An arrangement was at length made for the good old man to partake of the
sacrament of the Lord's Supper, when he made, as it appeared to the
chaplain and matron, the singular request that the young mute might
partake of it with him. A secret was then divulged which had been known
only to the two patients themselves. Having spent a long period of time
together, the old man had improved the opportunity thus afforded to
effect intercourse with the youth by signs, and had been enabled, by the
Divine blessing, to convey to him a knowledge of salvation through a
crucified Redeemer. There appeared every reason to believe that the
poor fellow possessed an enlightened understanding and a renewed mind,
and he was allowed to participate in the desired privilege.

Shortly after this the old man died, and when the youth was made
sensible of the event, his countenance brightened with joy; he waved his
hand and pointed up to the sky to intimate that he was gone into heaven.
After a time the mute followed his kind friend and instructor. When he
felt himself dying, he first put his fingers in his ears and took them
out again, to show that his ears would be unstopped; he then put out his
tongue and pointed to heaven, to show that that would be unloosed.

These facts were communicated to a friend by the matron of the
Infirmary--herself an eminent christian, who has since died, and who did
not doubt that the youth had obtained a correct and experimental
knowledge of the gospel of salvation.




A DEAF AND DUMB MAN IN THE REVISION COURT.

On Thursday afternoon a singular scene was witnessed during the
proceedings of the Revision Court, at Ashton-under-Lyne. A man named
James Booth, of 3, Dog Dungeon, Hurst polling district, was objected to
by the Conservatives, and Mr. Booth, their solicitor, announced that the
man was deaf and dumb, but just able to utter a monosyllable now and
then. Mr. Chorlton, the Liberal solicitor: What can I do (laughter)? Mr.
Booth first by writing asked what the man's name was, and then began to
talk to him with his fingers, but being an indifferent chirologist he
made very poor progress. He had merely elicited that the man was the
owner when Mr. Chorlton began to grow impatient, and inquired, Why
don't they both go to the Isle of Man for a week (laughter)? Nothing
more could be got out of the man except a "yes" or "no" after questions
had been patiently propounded by Mr. Booth in the dactyologic alphabet.
At length the Barrister spied a rent book, and this was pounced upon and
the vote allowed very joyfully, to save further trouble. The dumb man
then spake, stuttering, and with great effort, I claim my expenses. Mr.
Chorlton: He's got those words all right, at any rate (laughter.) Mr.
Booth: He can talk a little but hear nothing. Recourse was again had by
Mr. Booth to his digits, and he interpreted to the court that the man
was a hat body maker, and wanted 5s. 6d. The Barrister: I will allow 5s.
The money was handed to the man, and he went away smiling.--_Newcastle
Journal._




JULIA BRACE.

Julia Brace, a deaf, dumb, and blind woman, who died in August, 1884, in
her seventy-eighth year, was well known all over America, at least
wherever attention has been paid to the education of deaf mutes. In the
year 1810, when about four years old, she lost her sight and hearing
from malignant sickness. At that time there was no school for deaf
mutes. It was not until after she was turned nineteen years that she
entered school, and she remained there between twenty and twenty-five
years. During her long stay at the school her case always attracted
particularly interesting attention on the part of visitors. In many ways
she could render much service in the daily work of the Institution. She
could even distinguish clothes belonging to different pupils, and was
therefore employed in sorting and putting them away. She had a good many
curious and amusing ways. For instance, when girl-pupils, dressing, took
their turns before the looking glass to comb up their hair, she always
insisted on having her turn, and would stand there to comb hers like any
one else. But one thing was noticeable. She had a very clear notion of
her own rights, and would not allow any interference with them.
Sometimes her idea of a personal right was rather out of a common
course, but she had no question about it, and probably could not see how
any one should have.

Her case is not to be compared with that of Laura Bridgman, who
possessed mental powers of a higher order. She had not got the benefit
of early, assiduous, and special care that was given to the latter, and
probably she had a much less acute mental constitution at the outset of
her education. Her education began late, and at a time when very little
was known of the proper way of education for a case like hers; and she
consequently did not make much progress in language. However, it has
been found quite easy to communicate with her as to all the common
events of her daily life.




"AN AMUSING STORY."

Here is an amusing story hailing from Munich. During the past year the
professor of Aesthetics in the University, whose lectures are
proverbially wearisome, delivered his lectures (as usual) to a scanty
audience. There were five students in all, who, week by week, melted and
grew "beautifully less," until at last but one was left. This solitary
individual, however, seemed to concentrate in his own person all the
diligence, application, and punctuality of his frivolous fellows. At the
conclusion of the last lecture of the course the professor approached
him and praised him for these admirable qualities, and proceeded to
inquire of him, "What is your name, my young friend?" No answer. "What
country are you from?" Absolute silence. The matter was soon elucidated,
for it was discovered that the patient and persevering disciple was a
poor deaf mute, who had taken refuge from the severe cold of winter in
the warm lecture rooms of the University.




[Illustration]

The following is extracted from "The Christian Leader":--At a Christmas
competition of blind readers which took place on Friday and Saturday,
21st and 22nd December, 1883, in the Mission Hall in Bath Street,
Glasgow, was found a blind deaf mute among the blind hearing
competitors. Educated when young in the Institution for the Deaf and
Dumb, he was able to do for himself until he lost his sight two or three
years ago. He had then to make use of his fingers in reading as well as
speaking; and in spite of the formidable difficulties in the way of his
learning the embossed type, he made a most creditable appearance on
Saturday and gained a special prize. The remark made by one of the
examiners when this man was reading will, we are sure, express the
thought of all who peruse these lines--"How thankful to God we ought to
be for the use of our faculties, and especially for this precious
blessing of sight!" This blind deaf mute is Mr. Daniel Hunter Ardrossan,
one of the members of the Ayrshire Deaf and Dumb Mission.




A DEAF MUTE'S HEROISM.

[Illustration]

About five o'clock on Sunday afternoon several gentlemen standing on
Vine Street Wharf witnessed an act which was highly commendable. Thomas
Hall, a lad of nine years, having strayed from his parents, was at play
upon the wharf mentioned, when his foot slipped and he was precipitated
into the strong tide of the Delaware. A deaf mute named Argus Cornish,
an eccentric genius, who does odd jobs along the wharves, and who, an
outcast himself, seems to take pleasurable pride in protecting others,
and has already saved several lives, although standing with his back to
the scene of accident, seemed, as his name implied, to have a hundred
eyes. Without any hesitation he stripped off his coat and shoes, and
plunging into the water, in a short time brought the boy safe to land.
Argus' heroism should not be overlooked.--_American Paper._




THE RIGHT HON. W. E. GLADSTONE AND THE DEAF AND DUMB.

Mr. Gladstone, on being presented with the freedom of the Worshipful
Company of Turners, gave an address from which the following is an
abstract:--

I went a few days ago to examine the collection of works prepared at
Messrs. Doulton's Pottery to be sent to the Exhibition at Philadelphia.
Those works were delightful for the eye to behold. They were also highly
satisfactory on the distinct ground that the price of production
appeared to be so moderate; but, most of all were they delightful to me,
because they were true products of the soil. There was a high faculty of
art as it seemed to me developed in the production of those works, and
that faculty of art had grown up in Lambeth. It was the Lambeth School
of Art from which Messrs. Doulton derived an abundant supply of workers
to whom they could intrust the preparation of those admirable objects.
Among the works I would mention one. It was a beautiful piece of work
produced by a youth who from his birth was both deaf and dumb. Now,
consider what it is to be deaf and dumb; what a cutting off of
resources; what a stinting of the means of training and improvement; and
then consider, notwithstanding this, how it was through an inborn
resolution in the centre of his being it was in the power of this lad to
make himself a producer of works that could command admiration on the
score of beauty, again showing how the energies, if rightly directed,
can be forthcoming when required.




A DEAF AND DUMB GIRL'S DREAM.

(WRITTEN BY HERSELF.)

I had a dream on the 26th of January. I was going for rolls, and going
back I met Gracie, a friend of mine, and she and I spoke quite well--we
were not deaf and dumb. A poor boy, very ragged, carried a basket with
some coloured glasses and stones, very bright, and some curious musical
instruments that I had never seen before. He walked behind us, and he
called to Gracie, and she turned to him, and he said to her that he
wanted her to buy many of them; that they were a penny each. We took
them up and looked at them, and they were very curious. She chose a
bright red one for a brooch, and bought it for a penny. Then he said to
me "Will you buy some?" But I did not want to be tempted to buy, and he
told me a great deal about its very beautiful sounds; that it was more
beautiful than all the others, and nothing could be more beautiful to
hear in this world, and he showed me how to play on it, and we heard
beautiful sounds. So I changed my mind, and wanted it very much, because
I could hear it. Then I saw a policeman come up to us because he heard
the beautiful music; and he laughed very much, and looked so very happy.
I said to the poor boy, "Thank you very much for your showing me how to
play on it." And he was very glad as he went away. Gracie went home, and
I went home, carrying my glass organ with me.

The above appears to us specially interesting; it is a curious
circumstance that a deaf and dumb girl should seem to hear sound in her
sleep.




A DEAF AND DUMB COUNCILLOR.

Kapotrine Moller, a Russian Councillor of State, son of General Moller,
and nephew of the tutor to the Grand Dukes Nicholas and Michael, has
just died at the age of eighty-three. He himself, his brother, and
sister were all born deaf and dumb. He was educated in the Deaf and Dumb
Institution in St. Petersburg, rapidly learnt to read, and showed such
ability that he was first admitted into the Imperial Chancery and
afterwards into the Council of State.




DEAF AND DUMB BOY AND HIS MOTHER.

Zachariah was a deaf and dumb boy, thirteen years of age, who was being
educated in an Institution for the Deaf and Dumb, after an absence of
four years he went home to see his mother. When he entered her house, in
company with his benefactor, she was sitting in a state of intoxication,
which greatly affected him. He took his pencil, and thus attempted to
show her the evil and danger of such conduct, and gave her much good
advice. After retiring with his friend, at whose house he went to lodge,
his countenance became very sorrowful, and the tears trickled down his
cheeks. His friend asked him the occasion of all this, when he wrote
"that he was thinking if he got to heaven how sorry he should be not to
find his mother there."




SPEED OF MANUAL SPELLING.

[Illustration: The Manual Alphabet]

In reply to a question "What is the number of words a good hand speaker
can make or say in one minute?" A deaf mute says, "Take the average
number of letters per word of the English language as five; this is the
number decided upon by the Postal Telegraph department. The average of
the Bible is about 4-1/8."

A good hand speaker can go through the alphabet ten times in one minute.
I have proved this by personally testing several deaf mutes.

The pauses between words occupy the space of one letter each, so we must
deduct one sixth of the whole thus:--

     Letters in alphabet                       26
     Number of times spelt                     10
                                              ___
     Total letters per minute                 260
     Deduct about one sixth for pauses         45
                                              ___
     Average letters per minute               215√∑5
                                              ---
         Result        43 words per minute.




PORTOBELLO SWIMMING CLUB.

On the mornings of Wednesday and Thursday the deep-diving medal of this
club was competed for by five members. The depth of water varied from 13
to 18 feet. Mr. Robert Smith was very successful in recovering the
plates from the bottom, bringing up six on the first and two on the
second morning, with which number he secures first honours. The second
place was taken by Mr. J. Wallace James. Mr. Smith, the medallist, is
deaf and dumb.--_Scotsman_, Aug. 29th.

[Illustration]




"DEAR TAMMAS."

A poor old deaf man resided in Fife; he was visited by his minister
shortly after coming to his pulpit. The minister said he would often
call and see him; but time went on, and he did not visit him again until
two years after, when, happening to go through the street where the deaf
man was living, he saw his wife at the door, and could therefore do no
other than inquire for her husband. "Weel, Margaret, how is Tammas?"
"None the better o'you," was the curt reply. "How, how, Margaret,"
inquired the minister. "Oh, ye promised twa years syne tae ca' and pray
once a fortnight wi' him, and hae ne'er darkened the door sin' syne."
"Weel, weel, Margaret, don't be so short! I thought it was not so very
necessary to call and pray with Tammas, for he is so deaf ye ken he
canna hear me." "But, sir," said the woman, with a rising dignity of
manner, "the Lord's no deaf!" And it is to be supposed the minister felt
the power of her reproach.




ROYAL SCOTTISH ACADEMY EXHIBITION FOR 1880.

John S. Rennie Reid, a young Aberdeen lad, now resident in Edinburgh,
who, though labouring under the great disability of being deaf and dumb,
has for some years back been an enthusiastic art student, has succeeded
in procuring admission for three oil paintings, each of which gives good
indication of his deftness and skill in the delineation of nature, and
the ardour with which he has followed up his studies. "Hide and Seek"
represents some children playing at that game in a hay field. "Largo,
the Beach at Low Water" gives us a pretty coast scene, with figures on
the beach. "Baiting the Line" is a very effective study of a common
incident in fisher life.




IN DERBY POLICE COURT.

[Illustration: PUPIL AS TAKEN FROM THE POLICE COURT.]

A few years since the Head Master of the Deaf and Dumb Institution at
Derby was sent for, with a request that he would hasten to the police
court to see what could be done with a little deaf and dumb boy. The
sketch is a faithful picture of the little fellow as he stood in the
dock charged with stealing. The police, in giving their evidence, said
that many complaints had been made of the boy's conduct. One lady
complained of his illusing her dog, another a cat, and another killing
her bird; others that he was always throwing stones or stealing, and
that he had actually tried to upset a railway train. It appeared that
twice previously the boy had been taken up by the police, but owing to
his tender age nothing could be done with him. The Mayor, addressing the
Head Master of the Institution, said something must be done with the
boy; unfortunately he was getting worse and worse; the case was a very
sad one, the boy being deaf and dumb, but the public must be protected.
The other magistrates present concurred with the Mayor's remarks, and
after consulting with Mr. Bailey, J.P., Chairman of the Committee of the
Institution, who was on the bench at the time, the boy was sent direct
to the Institution, where food was given to him, after which his
photograph was taken. The sketch given on the previous page is copied
from it. The boy settled down, but not without giving considerable
trouble; it was not to be expected that a boy, though so tender in years
yet hardened in bad habits, should at once conform to the rules of the
Institution. The teachers were not, therefore, greatly surprised to find
him early one morning prowling in a quarter of the Institution to which
he had no proper means of access. From time to time his teachers had
difficulties to contend with not easy to describe. There has, however,
been a gradual improvement in the boy's life and character. The sketch
given above is from a photograph taken when the boy had been in the
Institution one year.

[Illustration: THE SAME PUPIL AFTER ONE YEAR'S TRAINING.]




AN INTERVIEW WITH LAURA BRIDGMAN.

[Illustration]

We presume most of our readers will have read of Laura Bridgman, who is
without any perfect sense except that of touch. A correspondent of the
"Christian Union" gives an interesting account of an afternoon spent
with her, from which we make the following abstract:--

If any one supposes that by reason of her deprivation she is queer or
awkward in person or manners, he is altogether in error. There is
nothing at all singular in her appearance. When I entered the parlour, a
member of the family with whom she lives was playing on the piano, and
close behind her, on a low seat, there was a very slight, very erect,
quiet, self-possessed looking person, who seemed to be listening to the
music, while her hands were busy over some crocheting or some similar
work. She would have been taken for a guest who was fashioning some
pretty article whilst being entertained with music. The expression of
her face was bright and interested; and one watching her satisfied look
would have been slow to believe that she did not hear. The green shade
over her eyes indicated that she was one of the blind. She had on a
brown dress, a blue ribbon at the neck, a gold ring and chain, and a
watch or locket in her belt--a neatly attired, genteel, lady-like
person, looking about thirty-five (though her age is not far from
forty-four), with soft, brown hair, smooth and fine, a well shaped head,
fair complexion, and handsome features. That was Laura. As soon as she
learned that she had a visitor who knew people in the town where her
nearest kindred live, she came swiftly across the room, leaving her work
on the centre table as she passed it, and grasped my hand, laughing with
the eagerness of a child. Then she sat down face to face with the lady
who has charge of her, and commenced an animated conversation, by the
manual alphabet, easily understood by one who has practised it; but the
slight-of-hand by which the fingers of the friendly hostess,
manipulating on Laura's slender wrists, communicated with that living
consciousness shut in there without one perfect sense except of taste
and touch, was something mysterious, inscrutable to my duller sense. Yet
that the communication was definite, quick, missive, so to speak,
manifest enough, for Laura's face beamed, and she was all alert. Partly
by the letters and partly by signs she said a great deal to me. She
"ought to be at home to be company for mother," she said; and, once or
twice, she fashioned the word "Mamma" very distinctly with her lips. She
asked if I knew a member of her family now dead, and said "that was a
long year after Carl died." She seemed brimming over once with things to
tell me, and wanted me to know about her teaching some of the blind
girls to sew, which she takes great pride in, threading the needle, and
making her pupils pick out their work if it is not done nicely. She is a
good seamstress herself, does fancy work, and can run a sewing machine.
Next, she caught hold of my hand and led me up two flights of stairs to
her room to shew me her things; but the first movement was to take me to
the window, where she patted on the glass and signified that I should
see what a pleasant prospect there was from it. And there she, who had
never seen or heard, waited by my side in great content while I looked
and listened. Yet her face was radiant, and she stood there as if she
both saw and heard. I wish I could bring before all those who are
discontented with their lot, repining because God has withheld something
from them or taken something away, the cheerful face of this lady, who
has so little, but who accepts it as though she had all, who has never
seen a human countenance or heard a human voice, who in the infinite
glory and beauty of this outward world has no part, shut in by herself
in that silent, dark, unchanging, awful loneliness. Next she showed me
how springy her bed was. Then she took off my shawl, and showed me all
the pretty things and conveniences she had in her room, opening every
box and drawer, and displaying the contents. Her jet chain she laid
against her neck, her bows and collars and embroidered hand-kerchiefs
were taken up one by one, and deftly replaced in their proper
receptacles. Her writing materials, sewing implements, little
statuettes, trinkets, large Bible--I had to see them all. Lastly she
took out a sheet of paper, pressed it down on a French writing-board,
examined the point of the pencil, and wrote her autograph, "God is love
and truth. S. N. Bridgman." And then from her needle-case and spool-box
produced a cambric needle and fine cotton, and showed me how to thread a
needle, which was done by holding the eye against the tip of her tongue,
the exquisite nicety of touch in it guiding her to pass the thread
through. It was done in an instant, though it seemed impossible to do it
at all, and then she presented me the threaded needle triumphantly,
having secured it by slipping a knot. Going down to the parlour again,
she told me how kind it was in Dr. Howe to fit her up such a pretty
room; and then I must go into the school room, whither she led me by the
hand, and introduced me to several of her friends among the pupils, and
when I took my departure she would have the teacher go with me to the
door to tell me which car to take.




A DEAF AND DUMB BOY'S DEVOTION.

[Illustration]

Under the trees standing by the left bank of the Thames, and sheltered
from its waters by a mound of earth, is an old but comfortable
boathouse. A few roughly-hewn steps lead from the mound to the water's
edge, where some six or seven boats rock idly on the surface. Over the
door of this tottering mansion hangs a wooden board, with the words
"Timothy Gainsad" inscribed in large letters upon a black ground. A gush
of light and warmth issuing from the door guides the weary traveller to
a haven worthy of his choicest desires. Well can I remember the dark
outline of St. Paul's Cathedral, lifting its rounded dome in massive
grandeur to the skies, and the faint outline of the opposite bank
shining dimly in the distance. I remember, when a lad of seven, a rich
and influential lady coming down from Yorkshire to spend the winter
months in London. She brought with her a dumb boy attendant, whom she
had adopted and treated with the greatest kindness. One dark night she
hired a boat, and rowed out upon the river. Scarcely was she lost in the
river mist ere the flood gates of heaven were opened, the rain came down
in torrents, the waves dashed against our rude pier and threatened to
dislodge it, while now and then an occasional streak of lightning,
accompanied by a clap of thunder, lit up the dark surface of the river.
My friends had gone off in a boat in search of the lady, and I was alone
in the room. Seated on a stool by the side of a blazing fire, I was
reading an interesting novel, when the door was violently pushed, and
the dumb attendant of the young lady rushed in, seized a life belt from
the wall, and made for the door. I ran to intercept him; but guessing my
purpose, he raised the stool and brought it down with a crash upon my
head. I staggered back to the wall and fell, and he disappeared through
the door. With a reeling head I tottered to the door, and looked out
upon the river. "Great heavens!" I exclaimed, "he will be dashed to
pieces!" For there, revealed by a flash of lightning, was the dumb boy,
standing on the rail of the bridge, preparing to plunge into the surging
waters below. A short distance from the bridge was the boat occupied by
the terrified lady. It was fast sinking, and as he plunged from the
bridge it sank. I saw him come to the surface, stunned and bleeding; I
saw him raise the life-belt in his hand, and throw it to his mistress.
She caught it, and his face lit up with joy; then--he sank! His mistress
was saved, and some time after the dumb boy's lifeless body was washed
to the shore, and laid in an honourable grave. Over it stands a
beautiful angel of white marble, holding a scroll inscribed with these
words:--"Here lies Gustavus Arisild, who died in the surging waters of
the Thames to save his mistress."




THE DEAF MUTE'S FAITH.

One day a minister's servant brought a subscription book and laid it on
his study table, saying, "A dumb man brought it, sir." On looking at the
book, a thought struck the minister that he should not let that dumb
man out of his house without seeking his soul's good. He invited the man
in, and after kneeling in prayer before the man, and putting a
subscription into his hand, the following conversation took place in
writing. The minister wrote: "My dear friend, have you found the Lord
Jesus Christ to be precious to your soul? Are you born again?" The dumb
man answered, "Yes, I understand what is meant by 'born of the Spirit,'
it means a 'new creature' in Jesus." The minister was not quite
satisfied with the answer, and therefore he asked, "When were you made a
'new creature,' and how?" He answered, "I was under the impression of
sin six years ago, but I prayed to God for Christ's sake to give me a
new heart, and I felt joy and peace in my mind. I prayed O Lord, have
mercy on me a poor sinner. I also read the Psalms of David." In order to
bring out distinctly whether he really arrived at scriptural peace, for
he feared that, after all, the dumb man's faith might turn out to be
only a vague and wavering confidence, the minister asked him again "If
God were to call you away this night, would your sins be brought against
you, and would you have to answer for them all?" He answered, "I trust
in God for Christ's sake, because Jesus died for me. All those who trust
in Jesus' precious blood are cleansed from all sin. He is mighty to
save." The minister then asked, "Was it through the instruction you got
at the Deaf and Dumb Institution that these good impressions were made
upon your mind?" He answered, "My teacher used to teach the Bible to all
deaf and dumb pupils, but I did not feel any grace from God till I was
afraid to meet God for sins; then I looked to Christ by faith and got
peace." The minister then asked, "Will you write a sentence for me to
read to poor sinners, from a dumb man that cannot speak?" He then wrote
as follows--words which he meant to be used by the reader:--

     "O Lord, have mercy upon me a poor sinner!"
     "O Jesus, save me from death and hell!"
     "O Jesus, take me away to heaven and eternal bliss!"
     "O Jesus, take care of me every day!"

"Will you sign your name to all this?" then asked the minister. He
immediately complied with the request. We only give the initials J----
G----.




DEAF, DUMB, AND BLIND.

An examination of students who were deaf, dumb, and blind took place on
Washington Heights. The principal, Dr. Isaac L. Peet, gave various
interesting exhibitions of their skill and accomplishments. A blind,
deaf, and dumb boy, about fourteen years old, who had had less than a
year's instruction, was given an order to count out twenty crayons and
put them under a mat. The order was given by means of the sign language,
transmitted by feeling the motion of the hands of the person who
communicated with him. The order was correctly performed amid the
applause of the audience. A blind deaf mute also wrote several sentences
on a type-writer, and on another type-writer a deaf mute without hands
wrote by means of a stick inserted in his coat sleeve.




ORDINATION OF DEAF MUTES IN PHILADELPHIA, U.S.A.

Nearly all the deaf mutes connected with the Protestant Episcopal Church
in this city assembled yesterday morning in the church of the Covenant,
to witness the ordination into the priesthood of two deaf and dumb men.
The ceremony had been long talked of among the deaf mutes, and as none
of this class of persons had ever before been ordained to this order in
the church in this country, there was a widespread desire among the
Episcopal community to be present at the ceremony. The church was well
filled when the exercises began. Owing to the length of the services,
the regular morning prayer was omitted, and after hymn 153 had been
sung, Rev. Thomas Gallaudet, D.D., Principal of the Deaf and Dumb
Institution in New York, who was to preach the sermon, was introduced.
Dr. Gallaudet prefaced his sermon by saying that when a deaf mute was
addressed, the words were not spelled out, but that the ideas were
represented by signs. Ideas about the intellect were conveyed by a sign
about the head, those relating to the sensibility by a motion near the
heart; in short, the sign language was as distinct and individual as the
English language. Rev. Mr. Chamberlain, of Iowa, stood up in the chancel
as Dr. Gallaudet began his sermon, and interpreted the sermon to the
deaf mutes who sat in a body near the front of the chancel. Dr.
Gallaudet sketched the progress of deaf mute education from the
establishment of the first school in Hartford by his father in 1817. As
illustrating the individuality of the sign language, he mentioned that
while he was in Brussels in August last he preached to a congregation of
about twenty deaf mutes, English, French, Belgian, and his sign language
was comprehended perfectly by all. "Sounds," he said, "are only outward
symbols of ideas, just as signs are." At the conclusion of the sermon,
Rev. Henry W. Syle and Rev. Arthur M. Mann were presented for
ordination, the former by Rev. Dr. Miller, and the latter by the Rev.
Dr. Atwell, of Toledo. Sitting within the chancel, one at each end of
the communion table, were Bishop Stevens and Bishop Bedwell, of Ohio,
while nine other clergymen surrounded them. Among them the placid
countenance and venerable form of Rev. W. H. Syle, father of one of the
candidates, was especially noticeable. Bishop Stevens then read the
exhortation, and it was interpreted by Dr. Gallaudet to the two
candidates, who stood in their robes at the chancel rail. Eagerly did
they watch the motions of the reverend gentleman as he conveyed to them
the words the Bishop was speaking. The Bishop then asked Mr. Syle the
questions laid down in the prayer book. As Dr. Gallaudet finished
interpreting each question, Mr. Syle handed a slip of paper on which was
written his answers, to Rev. Mr. Clere, of Phillipsburg, who read it
aloud. Rev. Mr. Mann then arose, and Bishop Bedwell stated that the
questions and answers would be interpreted. He asked the same questions
asked by Bishop Stevens, and Mr. Mann slowly communicated his answers,
using only his right hand in replying. The ceremony of laying on of
hands was then performed, Bishop Stevens and several others laying their
hands on Mr. Syle's head, and Bishop Bedwell performing that office for
Mr. Mann. The Sacrament of the Lord's Supper was then administered to
the newly ordained priests, and they were welcomed within the chancel
rail. A special invitation was given to the deaf mutes to commune
immediately after the clergy, and there were enough present to occupy
the long chancel rail twice. The sacrament was then administered to the
congregation, and the audience was dismissed with the benediction by
Bishop Bedwell. On Saturday, the second biennial session of workers
among the deaf mutes in the Episcopal Church was begun in St. Stephen's
Church. Rev. Dr. F. J. Clere, of Phillipsburg, was elected President,
and Rev. Mr. Syle secretary and treasurer of the conference. An address
of Bishop Howe, and papers by Messrs. Clere and Syle were interpreted to
the conference by Dr. Gallaudet.--_Philadelphia Inquirer_, 15th Oct.,
1883.




PICTURES BY DEAF AND DUMB ARTISTS IN THE ROYAL ACADEMY, 1876.

     No. 1301.  "Despatches." T. Davidson.
      "    30.  "Elter Water, Langdale." C. E. Emerson.
      "  1235.  "The late W. A. Langdale, Esq.
      "  1247.  "Portrait of a Lady." Mrs. North, deaf from girlhood.


WHAITE'S WATER COLOUR EXHIBITION, MANCHESTER.

"The Staff of Life," by F. T. Tavar√®, is a drawing worthy of Hunt for
its literal truth.--_Manchester Courier._

March 25th, 1876.




FAIRLY DONE.

A good story is told of ex-governor Magottin, of Kentucky, who is a good
talker and likes to do most of the talking himself. Recently, in making
the journey from Cincinnati to Lexington, he shared his seat in the car
with a bright-eyed, pleasant-faced gentleman. The Governor, after a few
common-place remarks, to which his companion smiled and nodded assent,
branched into a description of the scenes that he had witnessed in
different parts of the country, grew eloquent over the war, described
with glowing speech the numerous horse races he had witnessed, talked
learnedly of breeding, and told thrilling stories of his battles with
the Indians in the North-West. The hours slipped rapidly away, and when
the train was nearing Lexington the two exchanged cards and parted with
a cordial shake of hands. The Governor drove to an inn, and to a number
of friends he remarked that the ride had never seemed so short before.
"Then you must have had pleasant company aboard." "You are right. I met
a gentleman of unusual intelligence. We conversed all the way over. I
never was brought in contact with a more agreeable man." "Indeed! Who
was he?" asked his friends. "Wait a minute; I have his card," and the
Governor felt in his pockets and produced the bit of pasteboard. "His
name is King." "Not Bob King?" shouted a dozen in one breath. "Yes,
gentlemen; Robert King--that is the way the card reads," was the proud
reply. A roar of laughter followed. "Why, Governor, Bob King is as deaf
as a post; he was born deaf and dumb!"




A NOVEL SITUATION.

[Illustration]

During the past year a gentleman had occasion to visit a certain city in
New England. He arrived at night, went directly to his accustomed hotel,
and to bed, slept soundly throughout the night, and in the morning
discovered his watch had stopped. When he opened the door of his room
another gentleman was taking in his boots on the other side of the
corridor, and of him our friend asked if he could tell him what time it
was. To his surprise, the gentleman took no notice whatever of the
question. He asked again, "Sir, will you be good enough to tell me what
time it is? My watch has stopped." No answer. The gentleman, without
looking up, shut his door and disappeared. At that moment two other
gentlemen came walking down the corridor, and Mr. X. asked of them the
same question. The two gentlemen, without looking to the right or left,
continued their walk without an answer or sign. "Well," thought Mr. X,
"this is very curious." However, he went back to his room. Presently the
bell rang for breakfast, and immediately a waiter entered the room,
seized him by the arm, and began a series of gesticulations. Mr. X. lost
his temper, and burst forth with "What in the name of goodness is the
matter?" when the waiter cried "Oh," and vanished, laughing. Mr. X.
began to think something was very wrong, but went down to breakfast.
When he entered the _salle a manger_, which commonly had a dozen or
twenty people at the tables, he found the hall filled with gentlemen in
black coats, all feeding gravely, and in silence. A waiter silently
beckoned him to a place, and when he was seated he said to his
neighbour--"Sir, will you be kind enough to tell what all this is
about?" No answer. The person, like Charlotte in Werter, went on eating
bread and butter. Our friend began to feel decidedly queer, and getting
out of his seat, went to the nearest waiter and piteously besought him,
for heaven's sake, to tell him what was the matter with the house. "Oh,"
said the waiter, "don't you know? Why this is the Deaf and Dumb
Convention, which meets to-day at Hartford."




THE DEAF AND DUMB BOTH HEARD AND SPOKE.

Vincent Ogden was recently charged with begging, under the pretence of
being deaf and dumb, at Launceston. P. C. Barrett said that he saw the
prisoner in the butcher's market. He was making signs, and pretending to
be deaf and dumb. He took him into custody, and after they arrived at
the police station asked him his name; he made no reply at first, but
subsequently said he was called William Ogden, that he was a native of
Manchester, and had just come out of Bodmin Gaol. Committed for two
months, with hard labour.




ENTERTAINMENT BY DEAF AND DUMB.

The inhabitants of Mansfield had some most enjoyable meetings on Monday
last, when a number of the pupils from the Deaf and Dumb Institution at
Derby gave some very interesting illustrations of blackboard sketching,
including animals, birds, fishes, &c. In reply to the question asked by
one of the audience, "What have you come to Mansfield for?" A little
girl, amidst considerable laughter, wrote "To get money." The gentleman
then asked her what work she would like to do on leaving school? The
reply was "I would like to be a lady's servant."--_Mansfield Paper_,
1885.




LORD SEAFORTH.

Lord Seaforth, who was born deaf and dumb, was to dine one day with Lord
Melville. Just before the time of the company's arrival, Lady Melville
sent into the drawing-room a lady of her acquaintance who could talk
with her fingers, that she might receive Lord Seaforth. Presently Lord
Guildford entered the room, and the lady, believing him to be Lord
Seaforth, began to spell on her fingers quickly. Lord Guildford did the
same, and they had been carrying on a conversation in this manner for
about ten minutes, when Lady Melville joined them. Her female friend
said, "Well, I have been talking away to this dumb man." "Dumb!"
exclaimed Lord Guildford, "Bless me, I thought you were dumb."




A "SUPPOSED" LUNATIC IN DERBY.

[Illustration]

At the Borough Police Court this morning, a man, who said his name was
"Jim," but from whom no further information could be obtained, was
charged with being a wandering lunatic. Sergeant Parker said that, at a
quarter-past one o'clock on Monday afternoon, his attention was called
to the prisoner, who was on the Midland Railway platform. He noticed
that the prisoner was wandering about in a strange manner. After making
enquiries, he had telegrams sent to Bath, the replies to which were to
the effect that the prisoner had been found wandering about the line
there greatly excited, that they did not consider he was right in his
mind, and that they had given him written directions to enable him to
obtain a ticket for Derby, which he succeeded in doing. He spoke to the
man, and thought he wanted to go to London; but when the London train
came in he could not prevail upon him to take a ticket. He had ¬£1 8s. in
his possession, and also some tea, a razor, basket, and other articles;
but no letters or anything from which they could find out his address.
He took him to the police station, where the police surgeon examined him
on Monday night, and pronounced him to be of unsound mind. The doctor
promised to call again this morning, but had not yet done so. The Bench
remanded the man until the following morning, so that the police surgeon
might attend and give evidence.--_Derby Daily Telegraph._

The alleged lunatic,--the deaf and dumb man, whose only name was Jim,
and who had been charged with being a wandering lunatic, was again
brought up. Mr. W. R. Roe, head master of the Deaf and Dumb Institution,
said that he had been sent for, and that he had been communicating with
the prisoner by means of signs, and found that he was deaf and dumb, and
totally uneducated, but certainly of _sound_ mind. The police surgeon
again appeared, and said he had examined the man, and had come to the
conclusion that there was no indication of insanity about him. The
prisoner was discharged and handed over to Mr. Roe, who promised to take
care of him till something was heard from his friends.--_Derby Daily
Telegraph._

The man was kept at the Deaf and Dumb Institution for a few days, when
it was found that his friends were residing on the other side of Bath.
It transpired that the man had been on a visit to some friends at Bath
and could not make the authorities understand where he wanted to go,
hence the error in sending him to Derby.--W. R. R.




A CLEVER GYMNAST.

Walter Stevens, a member of the British Mission to the Deaf and Dumb,
last year won the first prize for "all round performances" at the
Gymnasium of the Young Men's Christian Association. The prize consisted
of a very handsome gold and silver medals with silver buckle and strap.
He was successful in 1883 and 1884 in winning second prizes, but this
year he carried off in grand style the much-coveted first prize. His
performance on the horizontal bar was truly marvellous.




[Illustration]

WILLIAM DE COURCY.

This boy was educated at a Deaf and Dumb School. He was fond of
learning, and soon had many companions. One of the delights of his life
was visiting the farmyard which was attached to the Institution. William
had been taught to be kind to dumb animals. He watched the little birds
with much interest, and liked to feed them. There was one bird which
came daily to be fed which he used to call his own. He was eager for
religious instruction, and soon knew God made him, and that Jesus was
his best friend, and that sin was displeasing to God. He loved Jesus
much, and often signed about Him to his school fellows. After William
had been at school for some years he was taken seriously ill, and he was
asked if he were afraid to die? His reply was, "No, I know that God sent
His Son to save me." Shortly before he died his school mates signed to
him that Jesus was kind. William smiled, and then signed in answer,
"Yes, Jesus is kind," and shortly after fell asleep, his happy spirit
took its flight to that world where there are no deaf and dumb.




A DEAF AND DUMB SCULPTOR.

There has just been placed outside St. Saviour's Church, for the Deaf
and Dumb, Oxford Street, London, a statue of "The Good Shepherd," which
has been entirely modelled and carved by Mr. Joseph Gawen, a deaf mute,
who was a pupil of the late Mr. Behnes, and an assistant of the late Mr.
Foley, R.A. The statue is pronounced by competent judges to be an
admirable work of art. He also executed a marble bust of the wife of Sir
G. E. Hodgkinson. Some years ago he produced a splendid model in
competition for the Wellington Memorial.




BUXTON.

The Entertainments given on Tuesday in the Pavilion by Deaf and Dumb
children from the Institution at Derby drew large audiences. The
children looked bright and happy, and their personal appearance was a
sufficient indication that they were taken good care of at the
Institution. Mr. Roe gave some interesting illustrations of teaching the
dumb to speak on the oral system by placing the youngest girl on a chair
and explaining how sounds were produced. Mr. Roe asked various questions
as to names and objects orally, to which answers were instantly given in
the same way. The Institution at Derby is an excellent one, and the
Committee of management deserve the warmest thanks for what has already
been achieved, and we hope will be materially assisted in north
Derbyshire by all christian people who have at heart the welfare of an
afflicted class of society.--_Buxton Advertiser_, Sept., 1884.




[Illustration]

One of Her Majesty's Inspectors of Schools recently visited the
Institution for the Deaf and Dumb at Derby, and says the children wrote
some texts which pertinently answered some questions on religion which
were given to them. In answer to the question "Who made the world?" a
little girl at once wrote on the blackboard "In the beginning God
created the heaven and earth." The second question was "Who are
sinners?" One of the boys wrote "All are sinners and have come short of
the glory of God." A little Irish girl was then asked "How do you hope
to be saved?" The child wrote "This is a faithful saying and worthy of
all acceptation that Christ came into the world to save sinners." In
answer to the question "What does the Bible say about the righteous?" a
little girl wrote "The righteous are as bold as a lion." The last
question proposed was "How can you show your love to Jesus?" when one of
the pupils at once wrote "He says if ye love me keep my commandments."




HER LATEST AND BEST.

A little girl was admitted to a Deaf and Dumb Institution, and in due
course, before she had obtained a thorough knowledge of language,
learned "Little Jack Horner." Two nights afterwards, when the deaf and
dumb pupils were kneeling at prayer, they were surprised to see this
little girl kneel down and earnestly repeat "Little Jack Horner." It
might be said she was offering the latest and best thing she had.

[Illustration]




THE LITTLE DEAF AND DUMB PREACHER.

[Illustration]

In a small town in Germany lived a locksmith and his wife, to whom God
had given one child, a girl, who rejoiced the hearts of her parents as
she grew up strong and happy. But the father longed for a son, and God
heard his prayer, and a boy was born to him. Now indeed there was joy in
the home; but their happiness was soon saddened, for the child was found
to be deaf and dumb. He was otherwise a beautiful boy, with large blue
eyes. What could they do for him but pray?

"Ah, if only the Lord Jesus was here now," spoke the father once, "how
would I seek Him, and bring our child to Him; how would I pray Him to
lay His hand on our dear child, too, and give him hearing."

"And I know He certainly would," the mother answered.

"But the Lord Jesus is with us, though we see Him not; let us entreat
Him for our child."

At length the boy was three years old. His eyes were full of
intelligence, and he seemed to understand everything around him. The
God-fearing habits of his parents had a great influence over him. At
family prayer the mother held the little one on her lap, his hands
clasped together, and when the father asked a blessing on their frugal
meal, the little child would also stand behind his stool, and would
never taste a morsel before it was asked.

It was advised that the boy be placed under the care of a famous
physician in a neighbouring town. The father would leave untried nothing
possible for the welfare of his boy, and so very soon set out on his
journey. The sun was already set when they reached their destination.

Then the father took the boy's hand, and they went together to a
relative's who lived in the town. But what a different home from that
which the boy had left: the relative did not believe in the Word of God,
but only thought of pleasure and doing according to his own wisdom. So
long as the father was with him the child was content. He would not move
from his side, and at night slept locked in his arms. But the father
could not stay long; pressing business compelled his return home. His
departure was very sorrowful for the child, and the father felt it no
less.

At length the dinner time came. All was prepared, and the family
gathered round the table, and with a good appetite began the meal. But
the dumb child sat not; he stood behind his chair and waited. The others
told him to sit and eat, but he understood not. His lips were
speechless, but he made signs that they should pray. The people
understood him, but would not show they did. Then the child ran to each,
and, with a supplicating look, tried to clasp their hands together. A
feeling of shame came over them. They wished to quiet him, but dared
not try. Should they pray? They had never done it, but the child waited.
At length the wife stood up, then the husband, and then all the others,
for they did not know what else to do, and the wife prayed, with
trembling voice, "Lord Jesus, come to our meal and bless it, and grant
us Thy mercy."

Thus did the dumb child become a holy messenger, and, though he was
speechless, witness for God where He was entirely forgotten.

But how was it with the child? Was his coming so far any use? Was he
cured? No; the doctor could do nothing for him, and he remains
speechless still. But later he attended a deaf and dumb institution,
where he learnt reading, writing, and arithmetic, and many other useful
things. Above all, he has learnt to know for himself the Lord Jesus, and
to be resigned to the affliction God has laid upon him. He still lives,
and is a God-fearing young man, and the joy of his old parents. He has
learnt the trade of bookbinding, and can well support himself. Speaking
with his sister of the old times, he said in the deaf and dumb language,
smiling, "Ah, God has made me deaf and dumb that I should preach of the
holy Jesus."




A NAVAL CHEF D'EUVRE.

[Illustration]

Gervase Murray, a deaf and dumb young man, the son of a poor widow
living at Balbriggan, has just completed a miniature merchant ship,
which in mechanical structure, symmetrical build, and neatness of
finish, is not probably surpassed by anything of the kind to be seen in
Ireland. It has been minutely inspected by competent judges, who assert
that its _tout ensemble_ a more perfect piece of ingenious workmanship
they have never seen; nor could the most experienced ship carpenter do
more justice to the various compartments, appendages, and riggings than
has its mute architect, with but very indifferent apparatus--a penknife,
a file, and a bradawl being the principal instruments employed in the
work. It measures exactly six feet from the figure head to the helm, and
is precisely the same extent in height from the top of the mainmast to
the keel, the width being of proportional dimensions. The materials are
all of the best description, are tastefully polished or painted where
necessary, and are so exactly fitted in every part as to baffle the
detection of any conspicuous fault whatever. It is fully manned with a
crew of little wooden men, and officers in uniform, and completely
equipped with boats, capstan, blocks, hawsers, cables, davits,
cat-heads, bars, bolts, buckets, chocks, compasses, and even three brass
cannons; in short with everything that may be seen in a large ship. She
bears the significant name of "The Star of the Sea." Had he been able to
exhibit it, as he intended, at the late Dublin Exhibition, there is no
doubt that it would have attracted considerable attention, which perhaps
might have led to a substantial recognition of merit having been awarded
to a poor dumb youth, the chief support of his widowed mother, as a
well-deserved recompense for the patience and native talent displayed in
the construction of this tiny chef d'euvre of naval art, which must have
given him an immense amount of trouble and anxiety during the two years
he has been engaged in building it.--_Irish Journal._




ALEXANDER FERGUSON, THE FAMOUS DEAF AND DUMB SWIMMER.

[Illustration]

Alexander Ferguson, a dock mason of Dundee, (though now in employment at
Irvine), has rescued forty-seven persons from drowning--one paper says
fifty-one--in the Tay, Forth, Clyde, Dee, Tyne, Mersey, Wear, Ayr,
Irwell, Calder, Humber, and other rivers in England, Scotland, and
Ireland. He is thirty-nine years of age, and made his first rescue when
about ten years old. We have before us accounts cut from the newspapers
and other publications, from which we give the following particulars of
some of the rescues and swimming feats:--

At Troon Dock. One Sunday a boy, who was playing with his companions at
the quay, missed his footing, and fell into the harbour. Alexander
Ferguson, observing the occurrence, pulled him out in a very exhausted
condition. A purse of ¬£15 was presented to him.

At Ayr Harbour. A boy named William M'Lean, aged 12 years, fell into the
water and was just disappearing when A. F. leaped into the water and
rescued him.

At Androsan Harbour. A boy named Robert Bodman, aged 10 years. He was
rewarded with the sum of ¬£16 by merchants and gentlemen.

At Llanelly Harbour. A boy named Francis Cornwall, 10 years old.

At Towey Dock. Richard Pearce, 11 years of age.

In the Camperdown Dock, Dundee. Alexander Yule, 10 years of age.

At King William Dock, Dundee. James Anderson, a bricklayer.

At Devonport Dock. A girl named Victoria Napier, 10 years of age.

At Dundee Pier. A boy named Alexander Robertson, 10 years old, for which
he received the rescue medal of the Forth Swimming Club and Humane
Society (1864.)

At Falmouth Dock. Sarah Armstrong, 11 years of age.

At Lime Dock. Oliver Markham, 7 years old.

At Maldon Dock. A girl named Jessie Brown, 12 years of age.

At Camperdown Dock. Mr. Alexander Doig, merchant of Forfar.

At Swanage Dock. A girl named Catherine Bruce, aged 14 years.

At Portcawl Dock. A boy named Albert Jones.

At Exmouth Dock. A girl named Alexandrina Nelson, 14 years old.

At Victoria Dock. A boy named Charles Blair, 8 years of age.

At Alexandra Dock. Richard Harrison, 8 years old.

At Earl Grey's Dock, Dundee. Peter Band, 8 years of age.

At Teignmouth Dock. Edgar Thorpe, 8 years of age.

At Alnwick Dock. C√¶sar Franklin, 10 years old.

A brave man. The last official act of the late Mayor of Great Yarmouth
was to present the silver medal of the Humane Society to Alexander
Ferguson, mason, of Dundee, for having saved the life of Charles Cullen,
a private in the 55th Regiment, who fell overboard the steamer "Juno" on
returning to Inverness. Ferguson dived and saved him, but ran great risk
of being drowned, Cullen having fallen under the paddle wheel, which was
in motion.

Gallant rescue from drowning in the River Mersey, off Garston, near
Liverpool. On Thursday afternoon four young lads had an exceedingly
narrow escape from drowning in the ferry harbour; they were amusing
themselves with a boat, when they overbalanced and fell into the water;
this was noticed by Alexander Ferguson, mason, who was standing on the
jetty, and he, without divesting himself of any of his clothes, swam to
their rescue. Having succeeded in getting hold of three lads, he landed
them ashore, and then struck out for the other, who by this time had
almost disappeared, his hands only being visible above the water.
Ferguson landed him ashore also. After some time all the four were able
to walk home to Liverpool. A large crowd was on the jetty at the time,
and great excitement prevailed. Ferguson deserves great credit for the
courage and presence of mind he displayed, and it is believed that but
for his efforts the lads would have been drowned.--_Liverpool Mercury_,
1872.


GREAT SWIMMING FEATS.

1. Fourteen miles down the river with the rapid ebb tide, from the
middle buoys opposite the Tay ferries to far buoy at the mouth of the
river Tay, in 5-1/2 hours (1859.)

2. Across the Frith of Clyde from Carrought, Ayrshire, to Ailsa Rock; 8
miles in 3 hours, through strong currents.

3. Across the Frith of Forth, from Buckhaven, in Fifeshire, to North
Berwick; 18 miles in 7 hours (1862.)

4. Across the Bay of Leece, from the Mull of Galloway Lighthouse to
Barrowhead; 10 miles in 4 hours.

5. Across the mouth of Loch Ryan, from Ronmach, in Ayrshire, to Kirkcolm
Point in Gallowayshire; 4 miles in 2 hours.

6. From John O'Groat's House to Stoma; 8 miles in 2-1/2 hours, through
dangerous currents (1873.)

7. Across the strong-currented river to Cardell Point, on the east of
Cantyre, from Penrioch, on the coast of Arran; 11 miles in 3-1/2 hours
(1874.)

8. Across the Frith of Clyde from West Kilbride, in Ayrshire, to Grombe,
on the east coast of Arran, a distance of 12-1/2 miles in 4-1/2 hours
(1874.)

9. Across the Frith of the Clyde from Port Glasgow to Cardross; 9 miles
in 2-1/2 hours (1874.)

In all these instances he was followed by persons in boats.

We are informed that he has received presents for rescuing lives of the
value of ¬£300, besides twenty suits of clothes, and has also won many
cups and other prizes in swimming and diving matches, and has also
received several gold and silver medals.

Alexander Ferguson has on several occasions been present at the services
for the adult deaf and dumb held at the Institution at Derby.

[Illustration]




A DEAF MUTE'S GRATITUDE.

[Illustration]

M. Felix Martin, an artist, deaf and dumb from his birth, has just
executed a group representing the Abb√© de L'Ep√®e teaching a deaf and
dumb youth. He desires it to be placed in the Court of the Sourds et
Muets Institution at Paris, to which he gives it in recognition of the
debt of gratitude which he and his deaf mute brethren in misfortune owe
to the Abb√© for their moral and intellectual emancipation.




SIR WALTER SCOTT ON THE DEAF & DUMB.

Sir Walter Scott in his novel "Peveril of the Peak," uses the following
language as to the deaf and dumb of his day:--"All knowledge is gained
by communication, either with the dead through books, or more pleasingly
through the conversation of the living. The deaf and dumb above are
excluded from improvement, and surely their institution is not enviable
that we should imitate them." Aristotle considered the deaf and dumb as
incapable of acquiring knowledge; while St. Augustine insisted that they
could not be instructed in the holy faith of the Catholic Church. Could
the worthies come back to this world they would be slightly amazed at
the practical refutation of their prophecies.




UNEDUCATED.

What would any of us be without education? By education, I mean not
book-learning only, but the training in good habits which is given in
well-ordered homes and schools.

Can any one read the following true story of a deaf and dumb man without
feelings of the deepest pity for the poor fellow left untaught and
untrained, to wander at will over the wild though beautiful country of
his birth. Was he happy? Read the story, and judge for yourselves.

A few years since an artist visited Ireland to sketch the wild and rocky
scenery for which parts of the coast are celebrated. One of the places
he went to was so poor and uncivilized that there was no house better
than a cabin to be found in the whole district. In a cabin, therefore,
he took up his abode.

One day he was busily engaged sketching some high cliffs, at the bottom
of which the wild waves dashed in fury. His seat was in a position as
perilous as it was grand.

Presently he observed a creature approach, whose appearance at first
puzzled him exceedingly. A nearer view showed him that it was a man
clothed in a goatskin, but with the gait and manners of one wholly
unused to civilized society.

The artist thought that he was about to encounter an escaped lunatic,
and, although no coward, he confessed to a feeling somewhat akin to fear
passing through him as he looked down at the depths below, and
calculated how small a push might launch him into eternity. Then he
remembered something about the advantage of being civil to madmen, and
determined to try and ward off his impending fate by a show of
civility. Beckoning the poor creature to him, he commenced to talk to
him, to show him his drawings, and to offer him a share of his lunch.
The man made no reply, but apparently assured by the artist's manner
came up close, sat down beside him, and was soon deeply absorbed in
devouring his portion of the lunch and in admiring the pictures. Still
he never spoke, only uttered some unintelligible sounds.

The artist congratulated himself on the success of his experiments; but,
nevertheless, he thought that on the whole "discretion was the better
part of valour," and after a little he got up and returned to his
lodging, the man following him at a distance.

On arriving at the cabin he related his adventure, when the people
exclaimed, "Ah! it's only poor dummy!" and assured him the poor fellow
was perfectly harmless, but he was wholly untaught, had received no
training in a Deaf and Dumb Institution, and lived in this wild
neglected manner. He was never asked to work, but roamed about at will,
being fed by the neighbours, who would give bits to him as they would to
a dog.

The artist was greatly touched by what he heard, and continued to be
kind to the poor deaf and dumb man, who, on his part, attached himself
to his patron in the most docile manner. Every morning he went to carry
the artist's drawing materials, waited on him during the day, and only
seemed too delighted if he could perform any little service for him. In
return the artist could only reward him by kind looks and a share of his
sandwiches. Once he offered him money, but it was received in such a
manner that showed plainly he did not understand its value. And the
neighbours said it was no use to give him money: _food_ was the only
thing he seemed to care for.

At last the time came for the artist to return home. When it dawned upon
the poor deaf mute he was about to lose his friend, he set up the most
piteous wailing, and refused to be comforted, not even by the choicest
morsels of food.

The artist, when relating it afterwards, said "that he was never more
moved in his life than to see this unfeigned sorrow, and to feel himself
unable (owing to the man not having been trained in a Deaf and Dumb
Institution) to convey one single idea of suggestive consolation."




TRADES OF THE DEAF & DUMB IN ENGLAND AND WALES.

The following particulars showing the trades of the Deaf and Dumb are
taken from the last Government Census of 1883:--

     FEMALES:--

315 domestic servants, 12 teachers of the deaf and dumb, 74 charwomen,
158 washing and bathing service, 22 bookbinders, 21 cloth manufacturers,
146 manufacturers of silk and cotton goods, 62 making lace, carpets or
trimmings, 580 milliners and dressmakers, 75 tailoresses, 28 straw hat
and bonnet makers, 99 seamstresses, 12 glove makers, 19 baby shoe
makers, 6 brush makers, 15 paper bag makers, 9 workers of porcelain,
&c., &c.

     MALES:--

24 artists (painters), 24 artists (engravers), 5 sculptors, 18 indoor
domestic servants, 37 gardeners, 28 commercial clerks, 28 messengers, 47
engaged in harbour and dock service, 37 farming on own account, 3 farm
bailiffs, 463 agricultural labourers, 15 nurserymen, 13 grooms, 2
veterinary surgeons, 2 gamekeepers, 40 bookbinders, 55 printers, 26
lithographic printers, 26 engine fitters and machinists, 11 watch and
clock makers, 41 bricklayers, 137 carpenters and joiners, 61 masons, 99
painters and paperhangers, 75 cabinet makers, 21 French polishers, 22
wood carvers, 12 carvers and gilders, 12 coach-makers, 15 wheelwrights,
43 saddlers, 42 shipwrights and carpenters ashore, 5 innkeepers,
1 maltster, 5 brewers, 17 butchers, 19 bakers, 4 confectioners, 44
worsted stuff and cloth makers, 344 tailors, 507 shoemakers, 23 pattern
makers, 10 hair dressers, 10 brush makers, 29 basket makers, 18 wood
turners, 23 coopers, 71 coal miners, 22 brickmakers, 22 workers of
porcelain, 29 glass makers, 11 jewellers, 55 blacksmiths, 65 iron and
steel manufacturers, 14 tin plate workers, 360 general labourers, 11
engine drivers, stokers, &c., &c.

There are in Great Britain and Ireland about 20,000 deaf mutes.




A WILL MADE BY PANTOMIME.

The Supreme Court of Maine recently, after a six days trial, sustained
the will of Horatio N. Foster, who was deaf and dumb, seventy-six years
old, who could neither read, write, nor use the manual alphabet. The
will, which was made by pantomime, devised 7000 dols. Only one similar
case it is said was ever tried in the United States, and that was in
North Carolina.




A BRAVE DEFENDER.

After reaching our encampment (at Jenin in Palestine) our dragoman told
us that the people of the village were so quarrelsome and thievish that
it was never safe to stop a night there without an extra guard, and he
had engaged the brother of the sheik of the village to occupy this
responsible post. This man was a great, tall, athletic-looking fellow,
but a deaf mute. While we were taking our dinner he came into our tent,
brandishing a revolver. He expressed to us by signs how safely we might
lie down and rest, because he (brave fellow as he was) by the aid of
that revolver would protect us from all harm. Directly after our
waiter--Dominicho--came in and informed us that the guard had borrowed
this revolver from our dragoman, Ali Solomon, but that he stood in
mortal dread of the weapon he had flourished before us so heroically;
that he refused to touch it till all the charges were withdrawn from it.
With such a champion for our defender what cause could there be for
fear?--_In Bible Lands._




A DEAF AND DUMB LAWYER.

Mr. Lowe, a gentleman who has been deaf and dumb from his infancy, will,
we understand, be called to the Bar by the Society of the Middle Temple
on Saturday next. He has had a good legal education, and is considered
very clever as a conveyancer.--_Brighton Gazette_, Nov., 1829.




A DEAF AND DUMB MAN ON THE BIBLE.

The following remarks on the Bible were written by a deaf and dumb young
man 26 years of age:--"The Bible is more valuable than all other books
in the world. It is divided into two parts, the one called the Old
Testament and the other the New Testament. The former was written by
inspired men, directed by the Spirit of God; the latter contains the
news of the Gospel, written by the witnessing disciples while Christ was
on the earth. The Bible informs us of the guilt of sin, of the
punishment of the wicked, of the Saviour who died to save men from
dangerous destruction, of the way of forgiveness by Christ, of the
condescension of Him, of the mercy and love of Him, and of the happiness
which Christ has promised to His disciples.

The Bible teaches us how to do good to others, how to help them in
distress, how to avoid temptation, how to love and obey God, how to pray
to God to keep us out of dangerous things, and pray to God for our
parents, for their children, and for our other friends.

The Bible is a very precious gift from heaven, and contains many
precious truths, therefore we should reverence it.




UNEDUCATED DEAF MUTE'S IGNORANCE OF GOD.

[Illustration]

Vauncey Thompson wrote after having been under instruction in the Deaf
and Dumb School for six years:--"When I was at home, I knew one word,
'God,' but I did not know what it meant, nor how the world was made, and
my mind was very hard and uncultivated, resembling the ground that is
not ploughed, and I was perfectly ignorant. I thought then that my mind
would open when I was a man: but I was mistaken, it would not have
opened if I had not come to school to be taught; I would have been
ignorant and have known nothing that is proper, and no religion would
have come toward me. I must study my Bible till my life is departed, and
I hope God will please never forsake me."




DO THE DEAF & DUMB THINK THEMSELVES UNHAPPY?

Two deaf and dumb scholars of the late Abb√© Siccard were asked--Do the
deaf and dumb think themselves unhappy? The following is the answer of
Massien:--"No; because we seldom lament that which we never possessed,
or know we can never be in possession of; but should the deaf and dumb
become blind, they would think themselves very unhappy, because sight is
the finest, the most useful, and the most agreeable of all the senses.
Besides, we are amply indemnified for our misfortune by the signal
favour of expressing by gestures and by writing our ideas, our thoughts,
and our feelings, and likewise by being able to read books and
manuscripts."

The following is the answer of Clerc, the other pupil, to the same
question:--"He who never had anything has never lost anything, and he
who never lost anything has nothing to regret; consequently, the deaf
and dumb who never heard or spoke, have never lost either hearing or
speech, therefore cannot lament either the one or the other. And he who
has nothing to lament cannot be unhappy; consequently the deaf and dumb
are not unhappy. Besides, it is a great consolation for them to be able
to replace hearing by writing, and speech by signs."




A DEAF MUTE'S IDEAS BEFORE INSTRUCTION.

The following extract from the correspondence of a deaf and dumb pupil
with his teacher is a fair specimen of the natural condition of the deaf
and dumb before receiving instruction:--

"Before I came to school I thought that the stars were placed in the
firmament like grates of fire, and that the moon at night was like a
great furnace of fire; I did not know how the stars and moon and heavens
were made; but I supposed that the people, like us above the firmament,
kindled the moon and stars; and I did not know whether the heavens was
made by art or not. I thought the world little and round like a table,
and was always intending to go to the end of it."




OBSERVATIONS OF DEAF & DUMB CHILDREN.

A gentleman called to see some little deaf and dumb girls who had been
present at a large meeting in aid of the Institution on the previous
day, when the gentleman asked, "What did you think of the great meeting
yesterday?" "I thought," replied a little girl of ten summers, "people
would give great money for deaf and dumb school." To another little girl
the question put was, "Did you observe any difference in the behaviour
of the people present at the meeting?" "I saw some smile, and I believe
some were fretting." "What do you think was the reason that some
fretted?" "I thought they fretted about the deaf and dumb and about
God."




A DEAF & DUMB BOY'S REMARKABLE DREAM.

[Illustration]

William Brennen, aged about fourteen and a-half years, having been
awakened from sleep, his first words were that he had been dreaming; and
when he got into the school-room he commenced writing upon his slate as
follows, assuring his teachers that he described exactly as he thought
he saw and heard in his dream, and from his character for truth there
was no doubt he did so:

I was dreaming about God; that he sent Jesus Christ, who came into the
world from heaven. He was present with twelve men; they saw Him, and
were frightened. He said, "Will you love God, and why?" They said, "He
is the creator of all things; He saved us from our sin; He was walking
on the water; He made them to live on the water and on the land. He
spoke unto them, whose names are Disciples. I saw them by dreaming.

He said unto me, "Will you love God, and why?" I said unto Him, "Because
He made me in a happy state and holy; he brought me to heaven from this
world." His face was luminous and beautiful; he had a long beard, his
hair was short and shining--I could not look at him. He wrote judgments
of mankind--some were very good. When they died he took some to heaven,
and some were sent to hell. His robe was very bright, like a cloud round
the sun.

I could hear more than all the people in the world. I was more obedient
to God. There was not the sun, nor the moon, nor the stars. I saw
Addington--(one of his friends who had died lately)--who was in heaven.
He shook hands with me. He was more tall than you.

I saw Adam and Eve: God made him by His word. He made him of the dust of
the earth. He breathed into his nostrils the breath of life. God said,
"Thy name is Adam." He took a rib of the man whilst he slept; he made
woman by taking the rib from a man. Her name was Eve. He made them in a
happy state and holy. He made a garden of Eden. He sent them to live in
the garden. God said, "Thou shalt not eat of the fruit of the tree of
knowledge."

I saw God making the world and all things. First the world, firmament,
sun, moon, stars, land and water. God made the water with His breath, He
gave it into the world. He made the sun, moon, stars very quickly with
his word. He made the sun of part of the earth, from the world, and the
moon of a little part from the sun, and the stars of a very little part
from the moon. He did not make anything with His hands, but by His word.

I saw the world before the sun was made--it was all earth. He made
Europe, Africa--all! and with His breath He made the sea. (Here his
action was remarkable. He drew on his slate the continent and islands,
blew with his breath with scarce any motion of his lips, and showed that
the waters instantaneously flowed through their channels, and the seas
were formed.) God made the firmament by His word; it is like silk paper,
it is all round the world: there is water over it and clouds under it,
and the sun shines through it, and the moon, and the stars. (Here he
described by gestures the motions of the earth, the sun, and moon, and
that there were countless stars, larger much than the sun; that there
was no axle on which the world moved, nor anything to keep it up like a
cord, but that it was moved and upheld by the breath of the Almighty.)

There were many angels with him.

He had not a loud voice, and his eyes see the sun before him and behind
him.

He spoke very kindly to me; I saw many spirits in heaven; they were
worshipping God and obedient to God; they did not speak; they listened
to God and were obedient to Him; and God was often speaking to them; and
they loved Him. He was commanding them to look at evil and right things
in the world, and they were very bright like clouds; thou couldst not
see them, because they were invisible.

Angels are often in the world; they are always present with us, and in
every place, separating the people's hearts, good from bad. God tells
them to separate the good from the bad; and they are always soaring with
their wings. Their wings have not feathers; they are like the clouds.
The angels are soaring always, and standing on the air and the clouds;
they never are flapping with their wings; they are never tired, nor
sleepy, nor hungry, nor thirsty, nor eating, nor laughing, nor smiling;
I saw some more crying a little, because the people have sin _from
them_. They are very beautiful like the sun. God is more bright than an
angel. They can walk on everything in heaven and in the world, and in
hell they are not burned. God was sitting on the clouds, and on the air,
and on the water. He is still, quiet; He never laughs. (His gestures
here were striking in an astonishing degree, and his whole mind seemed
overcome, with a sense of the Divine greatness and glory.) God was very
kind to the angels, more than all the world.




THE SCRIPTURES AND THE STATE OF THE DEAF AND DUMB.

"Open thy mouth for the dumb in the cause of all such as are appointed
to destruction.

"Open thy mouth, judge righteously, and plead the cause of the poor and
needy."--Prov. xxxi. 8, 9.

"Now therefore go, and I will be with thy mouth, and teach thee what
thou shalt say.

"And the Lord said unto him, Who hath made man's mouth? or who maketh
the dumb, or deaf, or seeing, or the blind? have not I the
Lord?"--Exodus iv. 12, 11.

"But when that which is perfect is come, then that which is in part
shall be done away."--I Cor. xiii. 10.

"But I, as a deaf man, heard not; and I was as a dumb man that openeth
not his mouth."--Psalm xxxviii. 13.

"All things are full of labour; man cannot utter it; the eye is not
satisfied with seeing nor the ear filled with hearing."--Ecclesiastes i. 8.

"And he said unto them, Go ye into all the world and preach the gospel
to every creature."--Mark xvi. 15.

"And how shall they preach except they be sent? as it is written, how
beautiful are the feet of them that preach the gospel of peace, and
bring glad tidings of good things."--Romans x. 15.

"And in that day shall the deaf hear the words of the book, and the eyes
of the blind shall see out of obscurity, and out of darkness."--Isaiah
xxix. 18.

"Then the eyes of the blind shall be opened, and the ears of the deaf
shall be unstopped.

"Then shall the lame man leap as an hart, and the tongue of the dumb
sing; for in the wilderness shall waters break out, and streams in the
desert."--Isaiah xxxv. 5, 6.

"But as it is written, To whom he was not spoken of, they shall see; and
they that have not heard shall understand."--Romans xv. 21.

"This is a faithful saying, and worthy of all acceptation, that Christ
Jesus came into the world to save sinners, of whom I am the chief."--I
Timothy i. 15.

"As they went out, behold, they brought to him a dumb man possessed with
a devil.

"And when the devil was cast out, the dumb spake; and the multitudes
marvelled, saying, It was never so seen in Israel."--Matt. ix. 32, 33.

"Now when John had heard in the prison the works of Christ, he sent two
of his disciples,

"And said unto him, Art thou he that should come or look we for another?

"Jesus answered and said unto them, Go and shew John again those things
which ye do hear and see:

"The blind receive their sight, and the lame walk, the lepers are
cleansed, and the deaf hear, the dead are raised up, and the poor have
the gospel preached to them.

"And blessed is he whosoever shall not be offended in me."--Matt. xi.
2-6.

"Then was brought unto him one possessed with a devil, blind and dumb;
and he healed him, insomuch that the blind and dumb both spake and
saw."--Matt. xii. 22, 23.

"And great multitudes came unto him, having with them those that were
lame, blind, dumb, maimed, and many others, and cast them down at Jesus
feet; and he healed them; insomuch that the multitude wondered, when
they saw the dumb to speak, the maimed to be whole, the lame to walk,
and the blind to see; and they glorified the God of Israel."--Matt. xv.
30, 31.

"And one of the multitude answered and said, Master, I have brought unto
thee my son, which hath a dumb spirit:

"And wheresoever he taketh him, he teareth him; and he foameth, and
gnasheth with his teeth, and pineth away; and I spake to thy disciples
that they should cast him out, and they could not.

"He answereth him, and saith, O faithless generation, how long shall I
be with you? how long shall I suffer you? bring him unto me.

"And they brought him unto him; and when he saw him, straightway the
spirit tare him; and he fell on the ground, and wallowed foaming.

"And he asked his father, How long is it ago since this came unto him?
And he said, Of a child.

"And often it hath cast him into the fire, and into the waters to
destroy him; but if thou canst do anything, have compassion on us, and
help us.

"Jesus said unto him, If thou canst believe, all things are possible to
him that believeth.

"And straightway the father of the child cried out, and said with tears,
Lord, I believe; help thou mine unbelief.

"When Jesus saw that the people came running together, he rebuked the
foul spirit, saying unto him, Thou deaf and dumb spirit, I charge thee,
come out of him, and enter no more into him.

"And the spirit cried, and rent him sore, and came out of him; and he
was as one dead; insomuch that many said, He is dead.

"But Jesus took him by the hand, and lifted him up; and he arose."--Mark
ix. 17-27.

"And they bring unto him one that was deaf, and had an impediment in his
speech; and they beseech him to put his hand upon him.

"And he took him aside from the multitude, and put his fingers into his
ears, and he spit, and touched his tongue;

"And looking up to heaven, he sighed, and saith unto him, Ephphatha,
that is, be opened.

"And straightway his ears were opened, and the string of his tongue was
loosed, and he spake plain.

"And he charged them that they should tell no man; but the more he
charged them, so much the more a great deal they published it;

"And were beyond measure astonished, saying, He hath done all things
well; he maketh both the deaf to hear, and the dumb to speak."--Mark
vii. 32-37.




UNITED STATES OF AMERICA.

The Tenth Census Report of the U. S. of America for 1880 contains some
interesting statistics of the deaf and dumb, and apparently show a
considerable increase as compared with the whole population.

                            1850.       1860.       1870.       1880.

  Total population       23,191,876  31,443,321  38,558,371  50,155,783

  Deaf Mutes                  9,803      12,821      16,205      38,878

  No. of Deaf Mutes in each
  million of population         423         408         420         675

Out of 33,878 there were 18,567 males and 15,311 females. The number of
native deaf mutes was 30,507, and foreign 3,721. White, 30,661;
coloured, 3,217, including 3 Chinese and 37 Indians.




CAUSES OF DEAF-MUTISM.

The intermarriage of blood-relations is doubtless one cause. In one
school for the deaf and dumb 25 per cent., in another 20 per cent., and
in others 15 per cent. of the pupils are said to be the off-spring of
marriages between blood-relations.

Davy mentions the following case observed by Meni√®re:--A married couple,
being cousins, who enjoyed excellent health, had eight children, of whom
four were born deaf mutes, another was idiotic, another died when five
years of age, and two others suffered from absolute deafness, which only
made its appearance later on.

In the Institution at Derby there are three sisters, and also a younger
sister at home, all born deaf and dumb, the parents being own cousins.
On the other hand, there are at the same Institution several children
having deaf and dumb brothers or sisters, where no relationship exists
between the parents, notably one family, in which both parents are
healthy, and in which there are four deaf and dumb children. In the same
county there are other cases of three, four, and even six in a family,
yet there has been no relationship between the parents. In addition to
the born deaf, measles, bronchitis, typhus, scarletina, and other
diseases are the causes of deafness, and consequently dumbness.

Cases are known to have resulted from lightning, fright, boxing on the
ears, and where young children have been allowed to fall on the head,
etc.

Damp houses are said to be a cause of deafness. In Paris among eight
children born in a family, five were born deaf, and these had all been
born in a damp house. The family who had previously lived in the same
house had three children, among whom were two born deaf and dumb. It is
sometimes said that certain unhealthy trades in which the parent or
parents are engaged are responsible for some of these cases, but the
only complete statistics are those of Nassau, the results of which are
as follows:--

  Among   27 Pipe-makers        3 deaf mute children,
                                            therefore 1 deaf mute to 9.0
   "     146 Stonemasons        4      "         "          "       36.5
   "     186 Brass-founders     5      "         "          "       37.2
   "     106 Potters            2      "         "          "       53.0
   "     590 Carpenters         8      "         "          "       73.7
   "     176 Earthenware-makers 2      "         "          "       88.0
   "     381 Sailors            3      "         "          "      127.0
   "   1,716 Bricklayers       11      "         "          "      156.0
   "   1,309 Smiths             7      "         "          "      187.0
   "     374 Vat-coopers        2      "         "          "      187.0
   "   1,894 Tailors           10      "         "          "      189.4
   "   2,911 Shoemakers        15      "         "          "      194.0
   "   1,614 Joiners            8      "         "          "      201.7
   "   2,006 Vinters            9      "         "          "      222.8
   "     514 Coopers            2      "         "          "      257.0
   "   1,380 Bakers             5      "         "          "      276.0
   "  49,201 Farmers          104      "         "          "      473.1
   "  18,211 Labourers         24      "         "          "      758.8

Meckel says that in the families of tradespeople, who are constantly
exposed to a damp unhealthy atmosphere or other injurious influences,
deaf-mutism occurs most frequently. Moreover, Meckel has found that
deaf-mutism is more frequently met with in flour-mills than elsewhere.
Among 990 millers in Nassau, there were found eight deaf mutes, or one
deaf mute to 123.7.

[Illustration]




A DEAF AND DUMB BOY NOT AFRAID TO DIE.

Bernard Grimshaw, a little deaf and dumb boy, lay seriously ill in the
sick ward of an Institution, and was asked, "Would you be afraid to
die?" "No! because Christ has taken away the sting of death, if we
believe in Him that He died for us; and we should not be afraid of
death, if we believe in Him that He died for us; and we should not be
afraid of death because He has promised to give eternal life to all
believers."

"What do you consider the best thing you have been taught, since coming
to the Deaf and Dumb Institution?" "I have learned about God and His
beloved Son Jesus Christ, and the Bible. That is best."




A DEAF AND DUMB SEXTON ROBBED.

George E. Fischer, the deaf and dumb sexton of the St. Mary's Avenue
Congregational Church, put out the lights and started for his boarding
house at 10 o'clock at night. He had gone but a short distance from the
church when he was pounced upon by unknown persons, who approached from
behind and knocked him down. After striking him another blow the fellow
went through his pockets, taking every cent he had. Fischer is a
hard-working man, but is in poor health, and will feel the loss
heavily.--_Omaha World, May 24th, 1886._




ACUTENESS OF EDUCATED DEAF MUTES.

One evening the senior class of girls and boys in a School for the deaf
and dumb were invited to put any questions they wished to the Teacher;
amongst others, the following (which show considerable acuteness and
reflection) were proposed to him:--Who made God? Were there any angels
before the world was made? Before the world was made, how was God
eternal? Do you know, are there houses in the moon which people inhabit?
Do you think the dwellers in the moon have got the sin as well as
ourselves? Will there be a new world when this is burnt up? How do you
know the scriptures to be the word of God? Do the angels know when the
last day will come?




A RUSSIAN DEAF AND DUMB YOUTH'S REPLY.

A young Russian, of great talents, though deaf and dumb, who had been to
a Deaf and Dumb Institution to be taught, with a view to become the
master of a similar Institution in Russia, was asked the difference
between intelligence and discernment? He said "Intelligence is a
faculty, by which we distinguish good and evil, what is useful and what
hurtful. I think discernment is the faculty of distinguishing the
greater and less degrees of good and evil."




[Illustration]

THE AGE OF DEAF MUTES.

The question is frequently asked, "Is there a greater mortality among
the deaf mutes than there is among the total population?"

The statistics so far published, on the whole, show a somewhat greater
mortality among the deaf and dumb than that among the total population.

It may, however, be stated that the deaf and dumb having to labour under
greater difficulties, generally succumb more easily in the struggle for
existence than their more favoured fellow-creatures.

In Bavaria, in 1871, there were 4,348 deaf mutes; 557 of these were
between 31 and 40 years of age; 556 between 41 and 50; and 852 were 50
years and upwards. In Prussia there were 23,579; of these 3,057 were
between 31 and 40 years of age; 2,540 between 41 and 50; and 3,609 were
50 years and upwards. In 1883, the North Midland Counties of England had
705 deaf and dumb: 148 of these were under 5 years of age; 83 were 15
years; 81 were 20 years; 227 were 25 years; 127 were 45 years; and 39
were 65 years and upwards.




DEAF MUTES IN THE TOWN AND COUNTRY.

Wilhelmi tried to ascertain by means of his statistics in what
proportion deaf mutism occurred in towns and in the country, and found
that it preponderated in the country.

  --------------------------------+------------+--------------------
                                  | Deaf Mutes.| Deaf Mutes among
                                  |            | 10,000 Inhabitants.
  --------------------------------+------------+--------------------
  In Magdeburgh  { In the Towns   |     181    |      5.2
                 { In the Country |     338    |      6.7
  In Erfurt      { In the Towns   |      81    |      5.4
                 { In the Country |     186    |      8.5
  In Pomerania   { In the Towns   |     378    |      8.3
                 { In the Country |    1259    |     12.8
  --------------------------------+------------+--------------------




COMPARATIVE NUMBERS OF THE SEXES OF DEAF MUTES.

In all countries where statistics have been compiled, the number of male
deaf mutes exceeds that of the female. In 1871 there were in Prussia
12,736 male and 10,843 female deaf mutes. In England and Wales in 1883
there were 4,408 male and 3,280 female deaf mutes. In Staffordshire 264
males and 217 females. In Leicestershire 64 males and 50 females. In
Lincolnshire 112 males and 93 females. In Nottinghamshire 96 males and
75 females; and in Derbyshire 121 males and 88 females.




PROBABLE NUMBERS OF THE DEAF & DUMB.

There is an increasing desire on the part of the various Governments of
the world to give information likely to be useful to the instructors of
the deaf and dumb, but it has been proved beyond doubt that the Census
returns in many cases are not altogether reliable, the numbers being
considerably understated. The following Table by Hartman, compiled from
the various census returns, shows the per centage to the population:--

                              EUROPEAN COUNTRIES.
  -----------------------+---------+------------+---------+-------------
                         | Date of | Total      | No. of  | Deaf Mutes
                         | Statis- | Population.|  Deaf   | among 10,000
                         | tics.   |            | Mutes.  | Inhabitants.
  -----------------------+---------+------------+---------+-------------
   1  Germany            |  1877   | 39,862,133 |  38,489 |    9.66
   2  France             |  1872   | 36,102,921 |  22,610 |    6.26
   3  Great Britain      |         |            |         |
       and Ireland       |  1871   | 31,631,212 |  18,152 |    5.70
   4  Italy              |  1871   | 26,413,132 |  19,385 |    7.34
   5  Austria            |  1869   | 20,394,980 |  19,701 |    9.66
   6  Hungary            |  1870   | 15,417,327 |  20,699 |   13.43
   7  Spain              |  1860   | 15,658,531 |  10,905 |    6.96
   8  Belgium            |  1858   |  4,529,560 |   1,989 |    4.39
   9  Netherlands        |  1869   |  3,575,080 |   1,119 |    3.35
  10  Sweden             |  1870   |  4,168,525 |   4,266 |   10.23
  11  Norway             |  1865   |  1,701,756 |   1,569 |    9.22
  12  Switzerland        |  1870   |  2,669,147 |   6,544 |   24.52
  13  Denmark            |  1870   |  1,864,496 |   1,156 |    6.20
  -----------------------+---------+------------+---------+-------------

                              NON EUROPEAN COUNTRIES.
  -----------------------+---------+------------+---------+-------------
   1  United States of   |         |            |         |
      America            |  1870   | 38,558,371 |  16,205 |    4.20
   2  Argentine Republic |  1870   |  1,743,199 |   6,626 |   38.07
   3  British Colonies   |         |            |         |
      in N. America      |  1871   |    583,535 |     470 |    8.05
   4  In the West Indies |  1871   |    905,730 |     690 |    7.62
   5  In Africa          |  1871   |    330,460 |     529 |   16.01
   6  In Australia       |  1871   |    305,730 |      56 |    1.83
  -----------------------+---------+------------+---------+-------------

In Prussia (1875) the Census showed a population of 24,604,351, the
number of the deaf and dumb being 24,315, or 9.9 to 10,000 of the
population. In India there are, it is said, over 200,000 deaf mutes. The
total number in the world is supposed to be over 700,000.




KING GEORGE IV. & THE DEAF & DUMB BOY.

When King George IV. visited Ireland a deaf and dumb boy determined to
send a letter to His Majesty. The following extracts taken from this
characteristic letter will be interesting:

     "Wednesday, 4th July, 1821.

     "My dear George,--I hope I will see you when you come here to
     see the deaf and dumb boys and girls; I am very sorry that you
     never did come here to see them.

     "I will be very glad to see you, if you will come here often to
     see me. Did you ever see the deaf and dumb in London? You must
     write a letter to me soon. Would you like to see me at
     Claremont? I could not go to London, because there is too much
     money to pay to the captain of a ship for me.

     "Do you know Grammar, Geography, Bible, Arithmetic, Astronomy,
     and Dictionary? I know them very little. I am very delighted
     that I am improving much. Perhaps I will be an assistant of the
     Deaf and Dumb School. Where were you born? Would you like to
     correspond with me? I would be very fond of you. You ought to
     write a long letter to me soon. What profession are you of? I
     never saw you; I am very, very anxious to see you indeed, and
     would like to see the King of England very much.

     "Will you send us some deaf and dumb children, and give us
     money to pay for educating them.

     "I am, your affectionate friend,
         "THOMAS COLLINS."

The answer was as follows:--

     "To Thomas Collins, Deaf and Dumb Institution, Claremont,
     Glasnevin, near Dublin.

     "Sir Benjamin Bloomfield is commanded by the King to present to
     Thomas Collins ten pounds for being a good boy."

     "Phoenix Park, 3rd Sep., 1821."

With these ten pounds the boy was afterwards apprenticed to a printer.




POOR SAM TRANTER.

The lot of the _uneducated_ deaf and dumb in this world is a pitiable
one, and their isolation is keenly felt. Often have we seen some of this
portion of suffering humanity unable to plead for themselves, or tell
their tale of woe or hardship. Such was the condition of poor Sam
Tranter. Though Sam was never in a Deaf and Dumb Institution, his skill
and plans for worldly prospects were extraordinary. In his boyhood he
was left friendless and uncared for, but persuaded a shoemaker to give
him work, at which poor Sam was fairly successful; owing, however, to
the man's ill treatment he had to leave, and, to save himself from
starving, went in the workhouse. After a brief stay he again went forth
to try his hand as a shoeblack, and after various attempts to shift for
himself, he began to master difficulties by wonderful energy and
perseverance, and there is no doubt had the poor fellow been properly
taught in a Deaf and Dumb Institution, he would have risen in life.
After a time Sam commenced selling cockles, mussels, and oysters.

From a small beginning he increased, and in course of time he took a
shop, and employed five women, at which he said he had made as much as
¬£20 some weeks. Owing, however, to his lack of education, the poor
fellow was continually robbed, and eventually got into trouble through
debt, and was worried with summonses; hence his failure as a cockle and
oyster merchant. He then took a stall, and afterwards a shop for the
sale of gingerbread, &c.; this was also doomed to failure. He then tried
street-hawking with a barrow, to keep himself from the workhouse; but
this also failed, and his barrow was seized for debt.

Poor Sam was again penniless, friendless, and homeless, which compelled
him once more to seek refuge in the Union, where he afterwards died
after great suffering, at the age of 60 years. His remains were followed
to the grave by a few deaf and dumb friends. Poor Sam might have said
with David "Whilst I would do good evil is present with me."

[Illustration]




FAITH COMETH BY HEARING.

A deaf and dumb Lady said that the first time she went to church after
she was impressed with the truths of christianity, she saw over the
pulpit the words "Faith cometh by hearing," which caused her great
unhappiness; for, she thought, that as she had no hearing she could
never have faith. Shortly after, however, she saw this text in the
Bible, and observed that it was followed by "and hearing by the Word of
God," which gave her so much delight, as shewing her a way in which it
was possible for faith to come even to her, that she clasped the Bible
to her heart.




MASSIEU.

One of the best educated and most distinguished deaf mutes was Massieu,
who gave the following remarkable replies to questions put to him by
various friends:--

"What is hearing?" "Hearing," said he, "is auricular sight." Another
party asked him whether he made any distinction between a conqueror and
a hero? "Arms and soldiers made a conqueror; courage of heart a hero.
Julius Caesar was the hero of the Romans; Napoleon the hero of Europe,"
was the answer he wrote on the blackboard, without hesitation.

In reply to the following questions, he instantly wrote answers. "What
is hope?" "Hope is the blossom of happiness." "What is happiness?"
"Happiness is pleasure that ceaseth not; and misfortune is grief that
endeth not." "What is the difference between hope and desire?" "Desire
is a tree in leaf; hope is a tree in flower; and enjoyment is a tree in
fruit." Another pupil standing by wrote, in reply to the same question,
"Desire is the inclination of the heart; hope is a confidence of the
mind." A stranger asked Massieu, "What difference do you think there is
between God and nature?" His reply was "God is the first maker, the
Creator of all things. The first beings all came out of His divine
breast; He has said to the first beings, ye shall make the second; to
the second ye shall make the third beings; His wills are laws; His laws
are nature."

"What is time?" "A line that has two ends, a path that begins in the
cradle and ends in the tomb." "What is eternity?" "A day without
yesterday or to-morrow, a line that has no end." "What is God?" "The
necessary being, the sun of eternity, the mechanist of nature, the eye
of justice, the watch-maker of the universe, the soul of the world." The
deceptive and acute question, "Does God reason?" was put to him, it is
said, by Sir James Macintosh, Massieu at once wrote, "Man reasons
because he doubts; he deliberates, he decides; God is omniscient; He
knows all things; He never doubts; He therefore never reasons."

Lucien Buonaparte once asked Massieu, "What is laziness or idleness?"
"It is a disgust from useful occupation; a disinclination to do
anything; from which result indigence, want of cleanliness and misery,
disease of body and the contempt of others." In writing this answer the
gestures and looks of Massieu were in perfect accordance with the ideas
that might be supposed to exist with him and the words he was writing.
When he had finished the last word he turned round, and then his whole
person, with his countenance and his eyes, exhibited one of the justest
pantomimic representations of laziness which it is possible to conceive.
After he had a moment dwelt upon this personification, which his fancy
suggested to him, he made an expressive transition to the looks and
manners of a person filled with that dread and abhorrence which the idea
of laziness should ever inspire.

[Illustration]




GRACE ANNABLE.

Grace Annable was deaf, dumb, and blind, and although her form and
features were well proportioned, she was a great sufferer from
constitutional weakness; yet her temper was mild and affectionate.
Strange to say, Grace was a capital nurse, and was much attached to
several very young children, some being mere babies; in order to
ascertain whether they were crying, she would pass her hand most
carefully over the mouth and eyes, and soothe their little distresses
with all the care and success of a talkative nurse. Grace was fond of
fruit, and would beat the pears and apples from the trees, and could
select the best with as much judgment as if she had been possessed with
the sense of sight.

[Illustration]

She frequently went in a field to gather wild flowers, to which she was
directed by the pleasantness of their odour. Her sense of smelling was
remarkably exquisite, and appeared to be an additional guide to her
fingers. Grace would feel and admire ornaments, etc., and would never
break or injure the most brittle things even in a strange room.

A gentleman once made several experiments with her in order to test for
himself her reported abilities, and expressed great surprise that one
thus afflicted should be able to accomplish so much. Grace has, after a
patient life, passed away into that land where deafness and dumbness is
for ever unknown.




A DEAF AND DUMB BOY AND HIS BROTHER.

Brownlow Harrison, a bright little boy who had spent a few years in the
school for the deaf and dumb, was watching with great earnestness for
his father, who was to fetch him home for the summer vacation.

[Illustration]

Brownlow had made unusual progress during the last half-year; this he
himself knew, and made him intensely anxious that his younger brother,
who was also deaf and dumb, should be admitted as a pupil in the
Institution. Brownlow himself at once wrote to the Committee as
follows:--"When I was at home I was ignorant, and I don't know about
God; but I am now taught about religion, and it is wonderful; I will be
taught before I leave school. My dear brother cannot read, and he cannot
understand; I wish he will come to school, for he don't know about God
and angels, and all things good or bad. I am afraid he will grow wicked
if he is not taught. I will feel thankful to the gentlemen to send my
deaf brother to school."




  FRANCIS CARTER, PRINTER,
  IRON GATE WORKS,
  DERBY.




Transcriber's Note:

In the anecdote entitled "DEAF, DUMB, BLIND, AND LAME," the character is
named once as David and once as John in the original text. This
discrepancy has not been changed.

Punctuation and alternative spellings have been retained as they appear
in the original text.





End of the Project Gutenberg EBook of Anecdotes & Incidents of the Deaf and
Dumb, by W. R. Roe

